"SONNET XVIII"
by William Shakespeare
Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date:
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimmed,
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance, or nature's changing course untrimmed:
But thy eternal summer shall not fade,
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
Nor shall death brag thou wander'st in his shade,
When in eternal lines to time thou grow'st,
So long as men can breathe, or eyes can see,
So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.
"SONNET LXV"
by Willam Shakespeare
Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea,
But sad mortality o'ersways their power,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O! how shall summer's honey breath hold out,
Against the wrackful siege of battering days,
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
Nor gates of steel so strong but Time decays?
O fearful meditation! where, alack,
Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back?
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
O! none, unless this miracle have might,
That in black ink my love may still shine bright.
"SONNET CXVI"
by Willam Shakespeare
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments. Love is not love
Which alters when it alteration finds,
Or bends with the remover to remove:
O, no! it is an ever-fixed mark,
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wandering bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come;
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
If this be error and upon me proved,
I never writ, nor no man ever loved.
"Auguries of Innocence"
by William Blake
To see a World in a Grain of Sand
And a Heaven in a Wild Flower,
Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand
And Eternity in an hour.
A Robin Red breast in a Cage
Puts all Heaven in a Rage.
A dove house fill'd with doves & Pigeons
Shudders Hell thro' all its regions.
A dog starv'd at his Master's Gate
Predicts the ruin of the State.
A Horse misus'd upon the Road
Calls to Heaven for Human blood.
Each outcry of the hunted Hare
A fibre from the Brain does tear.
A Skylark wounded in the wing,
A Cherubim does cease to sing.
The Game Cock clipp'd and arm'd for fight
Does the Rising Sun affright.
Every Wolf's & Lion's howl
Raises from Hell a Human Soul.
The wild deer, wand'ring here & there,
Keeps the Human Soul from Care.
The Lamb misus'd breeds public strife
And yet forgives the Butcher's Knife.
The Bat that flits at close of Eve
Has left the Brain that won't believe.
The Owl that calls upon the Night
Speaks the Unbeliever's fright.
He who shall hurt the little Wren
Shall never be belov'd by Men.
He who the Ox to wrath has mov'd
Shall never be by Woman lov'd.
The wanton Boy that kills the Fly
Shall feel the Spider's enmity.
He who torments the Chafer's sprite
Weaves a Bower in endless Night.
The Catterpillar on the Leaf
Repeats to thee thy Mother's grief.
Kill not the Moth nor Butterfly,
For the Last Judgement draweth nigh.
He who shall train the Horse to War
Shall never pass the Polar Bar.
The Beggar's Dog & Widow's Cat,
Feed them & thou wilt grow fat.
The Gnat that sings his Summer's song
Poison gets from Slander's tongue.
The poison of the Snake & Newt
Is the sweat of Envy's Foot.
The poison of the Honey Bee
Is the Artist's Jealousy.
The Prince's Robes & Beggars' Rags
Are Toadstools on the Miser's Bags.
A truth that's told with bad intent
Beats all the Lies you can invent.
It is right it should be so;
Man was made for Joy & Woe;
And when this we rightly know
Thro' the World we safely go.
Joy & Woe are woven fine,
A Clothing for the Soul divine;
Under every grief & pine
Runs a joy with silken twine.
The Babe is more than swadling Bands;
Throughout all these Human Lands
Tools were made, & born were hands,
Every Farmer Understands.
Every Tear from Every Eye
Becomes a Babe in Eternity.
This is caught by Females bright
And return'd to its own delight.
The Bleat, the Bark, Bellow & Roar
Are Waves that Beat on Heaven's Shore.
The Babe that weeps the Rod beneath
Writes Revenge in realms of death.
The Beggar's Rags, fluttering in Air,
Does to Rags the Heavens tear.
The Soldier arm'd with Sword & Gun,
Palsied strikes the Summer's Sun.
The poor Man's Farthing is worth more
Than all the Gold on Afric's Shore.
One Mite wrung from the Labrer's hands
Shall buy & sell the Miser's lands:
Or, if protected from on high,
Does that whole Nation sell & buy.
He who mocks the Infant's Faith
Shall be mock'd in Age & Death.
He who shall teach the Child to Doubt
The rotting Grave shall ne'er get out.
He who respects the Infant's faith
Triumph's over Hell & Death.
The Child's Toys & the Old Man's Reasons
Are the Fruits of the Two seasons.
The Questioner, who sits so sly,
Shall never know how to Reply.
He who replies to words of Doubt
Doth put the Light of Knowledge out.
The Strongest Poison ever known
Came from Caesar's Laurel Crown.
Nought can deform the Human Race
Like the Armour's iron brace.
When Gold & Gems adorn the Plow
To peaceful Arts shall Envy Bow.
A Riddle or the Cricket's Cry
Is to Doubt a fit Reply.
The Emmet's Inch & Eagle's Mile
Make Lame Philosophy to smile.
He who Doubts from what he sees
Will ne'er believe, do what you Please.
If the Sun & Moon should doubt
They'd immediately Go out.
To be in a Passion you Good may do,
But no Good if a Passion is in you.
The Whore & Gambler, by the State
Licenc'd, build that Nation's Fate.
The Harlot's cry from Street to Street
Shall weave Old England's winding Sheet.
The Winner's Shout, the Loser's Curse,
Dance before dead England's Hearse.
Every Night & every Morn
Some to Misery are Born.
Every Morn & every Night
Some are Born to sweet Delight.
Some ar Born to sweet Delight,
Some are born to Endless Night.
We are led to Believe a Lie
When we see not Thro' the Eye
Which was Born in a Night to Perish in a Night
When the Soul Slept in Beams of Light.
God Appears & God is Light
To those poor Souls who dwell in the Night,
But does a Human Form Display
To those who Dwell in Realms of day.
"The Marriage of Heaven and Hell"
by William Blake
PLATE 14
The ancient tradition that the world will be consumed in fire at the
end of six thousand years is true. as I have heard from Hell.
For the cherub with his flaming sword is hereby commanded to
leave his guard at the tree of life, and when he does, 
the whole creation will be consumed, and appear infinite. 
and holy whereas it now
appears finite & corrupt.
This will come to pass by an improvement of sensual enjoyment.
But first the notion that man has a body distinct from his soul, is to
be expunged; this I shall do, by printing in the infernal method, by
corrosives, which in Hell are salutary and medicinal, melting apparent
surfaces away, and displaying the infinite which was hid.
 If the doors of perception were cleansed every thing would appear
to man as it is: infinite.
 For man has closed himself up, till he sees all things thro' narrow
chinks of his cavern.
-----
PLATE 15
A Memorable Fancy
I was in a Printing house in Hell & saw the method in which
knowledge is transmitted from generation to generation.
In the first chamber was a Dragon-Man, clearing away the rubbish
from a caves mouth; within, a number of Dragons were hollowing the cave,
In the second chamber was a Viper folding round the rock & the
cave, and others adorning it with gold silver and precious stones.
In the third chamber was an Eagle with wings and feathers of air,
he caused the inside of the cave to be infinite, around were numbers
of Eagle like men, who built palaces in the immense cliffs.
In the fourth chamber were Lions of flaming fire raging around &
melting the metals into living fluids.
In the fifth chamber were Unnam'd forms, which cast the metals
into the expanse.
There they were reciev'd by Men who occupied the sixth chamber,
and took the forms of books & were arranged in libraries.
"When I Heard the Learn’d Astronomer"
by Walt Whitman
When I heard the learn'd astronomer,
When the proofs, the figures, were ranged in columns before me,
When I was shown the charts and diagrams, to add, divide,
and measure them,
When I sitting heard the astronomer where he lectured with
much applause in the lecture-room,
How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick,
Till rising and gliding out I wander'd off by myself,
In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time,
Look'd up in perfect silence at the stars.
"O Captain! My Captain!"
by Walt Whitman
O Captain! my Captain! our fearful trip is done, The ship has weather'd every rack,
the prize we sought is won, The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting,
While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring; But O heart! heart! heart!
O the bleeding drops of red, Where on the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead.
O Captain! my Captain! rise up and hear the bells; Rise up- for you the flag is flung- for
you the bugle trills,
For you bouquets and ribbon'd wreaths- for you the shores
a-crowding,
For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning;
Here Captain! dear father!
This arm beneath your head!
It is some dream that on the deck,
You've fallen cold and dead.
My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still,
My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will,
The ship is anchor'd safe and sound, its voyage closed and done,
From fearful trip the victor ship comes in with object won;
Exult O shores, and ring O bells!
But I with mournful tread,
Walk the deck my Captain lies,
Fallen cold and dead.
'The War Prayer'
by Mark Twain
It was a time of great and exalting excitement. 
The country was up in arms, the war was on, in
every breast burned the holy fire of patriotism; 
the drums were beating, the bands playing, the toy
pistols popping, the bunched firecrackers hissing and sputtering; 
on every hand and far down thereceding
and fading spreads of roofs and balconies a fluttering wilderness of flags flashed in thesun; 
daily the young volunteers marched down the wide avenue gay and fine in their new
uniforms, the proud fathers and mothers and sisters and sweethearts cheering them with voices
choked with happy emotion as they swung by; nightly the packed mass meetings listened,
panting, to patriot oratory which stirred the deepest deeps of their hearts and which they
interrupted at briefest intervals with cyclones of applause, the tears running down their cheeks the
while; in the churches the pastors preached devotion to flag and country and invoked the God of
Battles, beseeching His aid in our good cause in outpouring of fervid eloquence which moved
every listener.
It was indeed a glad and gracious time, and the half dozen rash spirits that ventured to
disapprove of the war and cast a doubt upon its righteousness straightway got such a stern and
angry warning that for their personal safety's sake they quickly shrank out of sight and offended
no more in that way.
Sunday morning came - next day the battalions would leave for the front; the church was filled;
the volunteers were there, their faces alight with material dreams - visions of a stern advance, the
gathering momentum, the rushing charge, the flashing sabers, the flight of the foe, the tumult, the
enveloping smoke, the fierce pursuit, the surrender! - then home from the war, bronzed heros,
welcomed, adored, submerged in golden seas of glory! With the volunteers sat their dear ones,
proud, happy, and envied by the neighbors and friends who had no sons and brothers to send forth
to the field of honor, there to win for the flag or, failing, die the noblest of noble deaths. The
service proceeded; a war chapter from the Old Testament was read; the first prayer was said; it
was followed by an organ burst that shook the building, and with one impulse the house rose,
with glowing eyes and beating hearts, and poured out that tremendous invocation -- 'God the allterrible!' 
Thou who ordainest, Thunder thy clarion and lightning thy sword!'
Then came the 'long' prayer. None could remember the like of it for passionate pleading and
moving and beautiful language. The burden of its supplication was that an ever-merciful and
benignant Father of us all would watch over our noble young soldiers and aid, comfort, and
encourage them in their patriotic work; bless them, shield them in His mighty hand, make them
strong and confident, invincible in the bloody onset; help them to crush the foe, grant to them and
to their flag and country imperishable honor and glory --
 An aged stranger entered and moved with slow and noiseless step up the main aisle, his eyes
fixed upon the minister, his long body clothed in a robe that reached to his feet, his head bare, his
white hair descending in a frothy cataract to his shoulders, his seamy face unnaturally pale, pale
even to ghastliness. With all eyes following him and wondering, he made his silent way; without
pausing, he ascended to the preacher's side and stood there, waiting.
With shut lids the preacher, unconscious of his presence, continued his moving prayer, and at
last finished it with the words, uttered in fervent appeal,'Bless our arms, grant us the victory, 
Lord our God, Father and Protector of our land and flag!'
The stranger touched his arm, motioned him to step aside - which the startled minister did - and
took his place. During some moments he surveyed the spellbound audience with solemn eyes in
which burned an uncanny light; then in a deep voice he said
'I come from the Throne - bearing a message from Almighty God!' The words smote the
house with a shock; if the stranger perceived it he gave no attention. 'He has heard the prayer of
His servant your shepherd and grant it if such shall be your desire after I, His messenger, shall
have explained to you its import - that is to say, its full import. For it is like unto many of the
prayers of men, in that it asks for more than he who utters it is aware of - except he pause and
think.
'God's servant and yours has prayed his prayer. Has he paused and taken thought? Is it one
prayer? No, it is two - one uttered, the other not. Both have reached the ear of His Who heareth
all supplications, the spoken and the unspoken. Ponder this - keep it in mind. If you beseech a
blessing upon yourself, beware! lest without intent you invoke a curse upon a neighbor at the
same time. If you pray for the blessing of rain upon your crop which needs it, by that act you are
possibly praying for a curse upon some neighbor's crop which may not need rain and can be
injured by it.
'You have heard your servant's prayer - the uttered part of it. I am commissioned by God to put
into words the other part of it - that part which the pastor, and also you in your hearts, fervently
prayed silently. And ignorantly and unthinkingly? God grant that it was so! You heard these
words: 'Grant us the victory, O Lord our God!' That is sufficient. The whole of the uttered prayer
is compact into those pregnant words. Elaborations were not necessary. When you have prayed
for victory you have prayed for many unmentioned results which follow victory - must follow it,
cannot help but follow it. Upon the listening spirit of God the Father fell also the unspoken part of
the prayer. He commandeth me to put it into words.
Listen!
 'O Lord our Father, our young patriots, idols of our hearts, go forth to battle –
be Thou near them! With them, in spirit, we also go forth from the sweet peace of our beloved
firesides to smite the foe. O Lord our God,
help us to tear their soldiers to bloody shreds with our shells;
help us to cover their smiling fields with the pale forms of their patriot dead;
help us to drown the thunder of the guns with the shrieks of their wounded, writhing in pain;
help us to lay waste their humble homes with a hurricane of fire;
help us to wring the hearts of their unoffending widows with unavailing grief;
help us to turn them out roofless with their little children to wander unfriended the wastes of their
desolated land in rags and hunger and thirst, sports of the sun flames of summer and the icy winds
of winter, broken in spirit, worn with travail, imploring Thee for the refuge of the grave and
denied it -
for our sakes who adore Thee, Lord,
blast their hopes,
blight their lives,
protract their bitter pilgrimage,
make heavy their steps,
water their way with their tears,
stain the white snow with the blood of their wounded feet!
We ask it, in the spirit of love, of Him Who is the Source of Love, and Who is ever - faithful
refuge and friend of all that are sore beset and seek His aid with humble and contrite hearts.
Amen.'
(After a pause)
'Ye have prayed it; if ye still desire it, speak! The messenger of the Most High waits.'
It was believed afterward that the man was a lunatic, because there was no sense in what he said.
"CLANCY OF THE OVERFLOW"
by A. B. 'Banjo' Patterson
I had written him a letter which I had, for want of better
Knowledge, sent to where I met him down the Lachlan, years ago,
He was shearing when I knew him, so I sent the letter to him,
Just on spec, addressed as follows, 'Clancy, of The Overflow'
And an answer came directed in a writing unexpected,
(And I think the same was written with a thumb-nail dipped in tar)
Twas his shearing mate who wrote it, and verbatim I will quote it:
'Clancy's gone to Queensland droving, and we don't know where he are.'
In my wild erratic fancy visions come to me of Clancy
Gone a-droving 'down the Cooper' where the Western drovers go;
As the stock are slowly stringing, Clancy rides behind them singing,
For the drover's life has pleasures that the townsfolk never know.
And the bush hath friends to meet him, and their kindly voices greet him
In the murmur of the breezes and the river on its bars,
And he sees the vision splendid of the sunlit plains extended,
And at night the wond'rous glory of the everlasting stars.
I am sitting in my dingy little office, where a stingy
Ray of sunlight struggles feebly down between the houses tall,
And the foetid air and gritty of the dusty, dirty city
Through the open window floating, spreads its foulness over all
And in place of lowing cattle, I can hear the fiendish rattle
Of the tramways and the buses making hurry down the street,
And the language uninviting of the gutter children fighting,
Comes fitfully and faintly through the ceaseless tramp of feet.
And the hurrying people daunt me, and their pallid faces haunt me
As they shoulder one another in their rush and nervous haste,
With their eager eyes and greedy, and their stunted forms and weedy,
For townsfolk have no time to grow, they have no time to waste.
And I somehow rather fancy that I'd like to change with Clancy,
Like to take a turn at droving where the seasons come and go,
While he faced the round eternal of the cash-book and the journal --
But I doubt he'd suit the office, Clancy, of The Overflow.
"SONG OF THE ARTESIAN WATER"
by A. B. 'Banjo' Paterson
Now the stock have started dying, for the Lord has sent a drought;
But we're sick of prayers and Providence -- we're going to do without;
With the derricks up above us and the solid earth below,
We are waiting at the lever for the word to let her go.
Sinking down, deeper down,
Oh, we'll sink it deeper down:
As the drill is plugging downward at a thousand feet of level,
If the Lord won't send us water, oh, we'll get it from the devil;
Yes, we'll get it from the devil deeper down.
Now, our engine's built in Glasgow by a very canny Scot,
And he marked it twenty horse-power, but he don't know what is what:
When Canadian Bill is firing with the sun-dried gidgee logs,
She can equal thirty horses and a score or so of dogs.
Sinking down, deeper down,
Oh, we're going deeper down:
If we fail to get the water, then it's ruin to the squatter,
For the drought is on the station and the weather's growing hotter,
But we're bound to get the water deeper down.
But the shaft has started caving and the sinking's very slow,
And the yellow rods are bending in the water down below,
And the tubes are always jamming, and they can't be made to shift
Till we nearly burst the engine with a forty horse-power lift.
Sinking down, deeper down,
Oh, we're going deeper down:
Though the shaft is always caving, and the tubes are always jamming,
Yet we'll fight our way to water while the stubborn drill is ramming --
While the stubborn drill is ramming deeper down.
But there's no artesian water, though we've passed three thousand feet,
And the contract price is growing, and the boss is nearly beat.
But it must be down beneath us, and it's down we've got to go,
Though she's bumping on the solid rock four thousand feet below.
Sinking down, deeper down,
Oh, we're going deeper down:
And it's time they heard us knocking on the roof of Satan's dwellin';
But we'll get artesian water if we cave the roof of hell in --
Oh! we'll get artesian water deeper down.
But it's hark! the whistle's blowing with a wild, exultant blast,
And the boys are madly cheering, for they've struck the flow at last;
And it's rushing up the tubing from four thousand feet below,
Till it spouts above the casing in a million-gallon flow.
And it's down, deeper down --
Oh, it comes from deeper down;
It is flowing, ever flowing, in a free, unstinted measure
From the silent hidden places where the old earth hides her treasure --
Where the old earth hides her treasures deeper down.
And it's clear away the timber, and it's let the water run:
How it glimmers in the shadow, how it flashes in the sun!
By the silent bells of timber, by the miles of blazing plain
It is bringing hope and comfort to the thirsty land again.
Flowing down, further down;
It is flowing deeper down
To the tortured thirsty cattle, bringing gladness in its going;
Through the droughty days of summer it is flowing, ever flowing --
It is flowing, ever flowing, further down.
"STOPPING BY WOODS ON A SNOWY EVENING"
by Robert Frost
Whose woods these are I think I know.
His house is in the village though;
He will not see me stopping here
To watch his woods fill up with snow.
My little horse must think it queer
To stop without a farmhouse near
Between the woods and frozen lake
The darkest evening of the year.
He gives his harness bells a shake
To ask if there is some mistake.
The only other sound's the sweep
Of easy wind and downy flake.
The woods are lovely, dark and deep.
But I have promises to keep,
And miles to go before I sleep,
And miles to go before I sleep.
"FIRE AND ICE"
by Robert Frost
Some say the world will end in fire,
Some say in ice.
From what I've tasted of desire
I hold with those who favour fire.
But if it had to perish twice,
I think I know enough of hate
To say that for destruction ice
Is also great
And would suffice.
Humans are divided
into different clans and tribes,
and belong to countries and towns.
But I find myself a stranger
to all communites
and belong to no settlement.
The universe is my country
and the human family
is my tribe.
"WE REAL COOL"
by Gwendolyn Brooks
The Pool Players
Seven at the Golden Shovel
We real cool. We
Left School. We
Lurk late. We
Strike straight. We
Sing sin. We
Thin gin. We
Jazz June. We
Die soon.
"THE BEAN EATERS"
by Gwendolyn Brooks
They eat beans mostly, this old yellow pair,
Dinner is a casual affair.
Plain chipware on a plain and creaking wood,
Tin flatware.
Two who are Mostly Good.
Two who have lived their day,
But keep on putting on their clothes
And putting things away.
And remembering...
Remembering, with twinklings and twinges,
As they lean over the beans in their rented back room
that is full of beads and receipts and dolls and
cloths, tobacco crumbs, vases and fringes.
"THE NEGRO SPEAKS OF THE RIVERS"
by Langston Hughes
I've known rivers:
I've known rivers ancient as the world and older than the
flow of human blood in human veins.
My soul has grown deep like the rivers.
I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young.
I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep.
I looked upon the Nile and raised the pyramids above it.
I heard the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln
went down to New Orleans, and I've seen its muddy
bosom turn all golden in the sunset.
I've known rivers:
Ancient, dusky rivers.
My soul has grown deep like the rivers.
"DREAM DEFERRED"
by Langston Hughes
What happens to a dream deferred?
Does it dry up
Like a raisin in the sun?
Or fester like a sore--
And then run?
Does it stink like rotten meat?
Or crust and sugar over--
like a syrupy sweet?
Maybe it just sags
like a heavy load.
Or does it explode?
"LES FEUILLES MORTES"
by Jacques Prévert
The falling leaves drift by the window
The autumn leaves of red and gold
I see your lips, the summer kisses
The sun-burned hands I used to hold
Since you went away the days grow long
And soon I'll hear old winter's song
But I miss you most of all, my darling
When autumn leaves start to fall
Since you went away the days grow long
And soon I'll hear old winter's song
But I miss you most of all, my darling
When autumn leaves start to fall
"FAMILY LIFE"
by Jacques Prévert
The mother knits
The son makes war
She finds this completely natural the mother
And the father what does he do the father?
He does business
His wife knits
His son makes war
Him the business
He finds this completely natural the father
And the son and the son
What does he find the son?
He finds nothing absolutely nothing the son
The son his mother knits his father does business him war
When he has finished with the war
He will do business with his father
The war continues the mother continues she knits
The father continues he does business
The son is killed he continues no longer
The father and the mother go to the cemetery
They find this completely natural the father and the mother
Life goes on life with the knitting the war the business
The business the war the knitting the war
The business the business and the business
"BREAKFAST"
by Jacques Prévert
He put the coffee
In the cup
He put the milk
in the cup of coffee
He put the sugar
In the café au lait
With the teaspoon
He stirred
He drank the café au lait
And he replaced the cup
Without speaking to me He lit
A cigarette
He made rings
With the smoke
He put the ashes
In the ashtray
Without speaking to me
Without looking at me
He got up
He put
His hat on his head
He put on
His raincoat
Because it was raining
And he left
In the rain
Without a word
And me I took
My head in my hands
And I cried.
"CHARLIE PARKER"
by Jack Kerouac
Charlie Parker looked like Buddha
Charlie Parker, who recently died
Laughing at a juggler on the TV
After weeks of strain and sickness,
Was called the Perfect Musician.
And his expression on his face
Was as calm, beautiful, and profound
As the image of the Buddha
Represented in the East, the lidded eyes
The expression that says 'All Is Well'
This was what Charlie Parker
Said when he played, All is Well.
You had the feeling of early-in-the-morning
Like a hermit's joy, or
Like the perfect cry of some wild gang
At a jam session,
'Wail, Wop'
Charlie burst his lungs to reach the speed
Of what the speedsters wanted
And what they wanted
Was his eternal Slowdown.
"CONEY ISLAND OF THE MIND #5"
by Lawrence Ferlinghetti
Sometime during eternity
some guys show up
and one of them
who shows up real late
is a kind of carpenter
from some square-type place
like Galilee
and he starts wailing
and claiming he is hep
to who made heaven
and earth
and that the cat
who really laid it on us
is his Dad
And moreover
he adds
Its all writ down
on some scroll-type parchments
which some henchmen
leave lying around the Dead Sea somewheres
a long time ago
and which you won't even find
for a coupla thousand years or so
or at least for
nineteen hundred and fortyseven
of them
to be exact
and even then
nobody really believes them
or me
for that matter
You're hot
they tell him
And they cool him
They stretch him on the Tree to cool
And everybody after that
is always making models
of this Tree
with Him hung up
and always crooning His name
and calling him to come down
and sit in
on their combo
as if he is THE king cat
whos got to blow
or they can't quite make it
Only he don't come down
from His tree
Him just hang there
on His Tree
looking real Petered out
and real cool
and also
according to a round-up
of late world news
from the usual unreliable sources
real dead
"A SUPERMARKET IN CALIFORNIA"
by Allen Ginsburg
What thoughts I have of you tonight, Walt Whitman, for I
walked down the sidestreets under the trees with a headache
self-conscious looking at the full moon.
 In my hungry fatigue, and shopping for images, I went into
the neon fruit supermarket, dreaming of your enumerations!
 What peaches and what penumbras! Whole families shopping at
night! Aisles full of husbands! Wives in the avocados,
babies in the tomatoes!--and you, Garcia Lorca, what were you
doing down by the watermelons?
 I saw you, Walt Whitman, childless, lonely old grubber,
poking among the meats in the refrigerator and eyeing the
grocery boys.
 I heard you asking questions of each: Who killed the pork
chops? What price bananas? Are you my Angel?
 I wandered in and out of the brilliant stacks of cans
following you, and followed in my imagination by the store
detective.
 We strode down the open corridors together in our solitary
fancy tasting artichokes, possessing every frozen delicacy,
and never passing the cashier.
 Where are we going Walt Whitman? The doors close in an
hour. Which way does the beard point tonight?
 (I touch your book and dream of our odyssey in the
supermarket and feel absurd.)
 Will we walk all night through solitary streets? The trees
add shade to shade, lights out in the houses, we'll both be
lonely.
 Will we stroll dreaming of the lost America of love past
blue automobiles in driveways, home to our silent cottage?
 Ah, dear father, graybeard, lonely old courage-teacher, what
America did you have when Charon quit poling his ferry and you
got out on a smoking bank and stood watching the boat
disappear on the black waters of Lethe?
"AMERICA"
by Allen Ginsburg
America I've given you all and now I'm nothing.
America two dollars and twenty-seven cents January 17, 1956.
I can't stand my own mind.
America when will we end the human war?
Go fuck yourself with your atom bomb
I don't feel good don't bother me.
I won't write my poem till I'm in my right mind.
America when will you be angelic?
When will you take off your clothes?
When will you look at yourself through the grave?
When will you be worthy of your million Trotskyites?
America why are your libraries full of tears?
America when will you send your eggs to India?
I'm sick of your insane demands.
When can I go into the supermarket and buy what I need with my good looks?
America after all it is you and I who are perfect not the next world.
Your machinery is too much for me.
You made me want to be a saint.
There must be some other way to settle this argument.
Burroughs is in Tangiers I don't think he'll come back it's sinister.
Are you being sinister or is this some form of practical joke?
I'm trying to come to the point.
I refuse to give up my obsession.
America stop pushing I know what I'm doing.
America the plum blossoms are falling.
I haven't read the newspapers for months, everyday somebody goes on trial for murder.
America I feel sentimental about the Wobblies.
America I used to be a communist when I was a kid and I'm not sorry.
I smoke marijuana every chance I get.
I sit in my house for days on end and stare at the roses in the closet.
When I go to Chinatown I get drunk and never get laid.
My mind is made up there's going to be trouble.
You should have seen me reading Marx.
My psychoanalyst thinks I'm perfectly right.
I won't say the Lord's Prayer.
I have mystical visions and cosmic vibrations.
America I still haven't told you what you did to Uncle Max after he came over from
Russia.
I'm addressing you.
Are you going to let our emotional life be run by Time Magazine?
I'm obsessed by Time Magazine.
I read it every week.
Its cover stares at me every time I slink past the corner candystore.
I read it in the basement of the Berkeley Public Library.
It's always telling me about responsibility. Businessmen are serious. Movie
producers are serious. Everybody's serious but me.
It occurs to me that I am America.
I am talking to myself again.
Asia is rising against me.
I haven't got a chinaman's chance.
I'd better consider my national resources.
My national resources consist of two joints of marijuana millions of genitals
an unpublishable private literature that goes 1400 miles and hour and
twentyfivethousand mental institutions.
I say nothing about my prisons nor the millions of underpriviliged who live in
my flowerpots under the light of five hundred suns.
I have abolished the whorehouses of France, Tangiers is the next to go.
My ambition is to be President despite the fact that I'm a Catholic.
America how can I write a holy litany in your silly mood?
I will continue like Henry Ford my strophes are as individual as his
automobiles more so they're all different sexes
America I will sell you strophes $2500 apiece $500 down on your old strophe
America free Tom Mooney
America save the Spanish Loyalists
America Sacco & Vanzetti must not die
America I am the Scottsboro boys.
America when I was seven momma took me to Communist Cell meetings they
sold us garbanzos a handful per ticket a ticket costs a nickel and the
speeches were free everybody was angelic and sentimental about the
workers it was all so sincere you have no idea what a good thing the party
was in 1935 Scott Nearing was a grand old man a real mensch Mother
Bloor made me cry I once saw Israel Amter plain. Everybody must have been a spy.
America you don're really want to go to war.
America it's them bad Russians.
Them Russians them Russians and them Chinamen. And them Russians.
The Russia wants to eat us alive. The Russia's power mad. She wants to take
our cars from out our garages.
Her wants to grab Chicago. Her needs a Red Reader's Digest. her wants our
auto plants in Siberia. Him big bureaucracy running our fillingstations.
That no good. Ugh. Him makes Indians learn read. Him need big black niggers.
Hah. Her make us all work sixteen hours a day.
Help.
America this is quite serious.
America this is the impression I get from looking in the television set.
America is this correct?
I'd better get right down to the job.
It's true I don't want to join the Army or turn lathes in precision parts
factories, I'm nearsighted and psychopathic anyway.
America I'm putting my queer shoulder to the wheel.
"FREDERICK DOUGLASS"
by Robert Hayden
When it is finally ours, this freedom, this liberty, this beautiful
and terrible thing, needful to man as air,
usable as earth; when it belongs at last to all,
when it is truly instinct, brain matter, diastole, systole,
reflex action; when it is finally won; when it is more
than the gaudy mumbo jumbo of politicians:
this man, this Douglass, this former slave, this Negro
beaten to his knees, exiled, visioning a world
where none is lonely, none hunted, alien,
this man, superb in love and logic, this man
shall be remembered. Oh, not with statues' rhetoric,
not with legends and poems and wreaths of bronze alone,
but with the lives grown out of his life, the lives
fleshing his dream of the beautiful, needful thing.
"AMERICAN HISTORY"
by Michael S. Harper
Those four black girls blown up
in that Alabama church
remind me of five hundred
middle passage blacks,
in a net, under water
in Charleston harbor
so redcoats wouldn’t find them.
Can’t find what you can’t see
can you?
"DEAR JOHN, DEAR COLTRANE"
by Michael S. Harper
a love supreme, a love supreme
a love supreme, a love supreme
Sex fingers toes
in the marketplace
near your father's church
in Hamlet, North Carolina--
witness to this love
in this calm fallow
of these minds;
there is no substitute for pain:
genitals gone or going,
seed burned out,
you tuck the roots in the earth,
turn back, and move
by river through the swamps,
singing: a love supreme, a love supreme;
what does it all mean?
Loss, so great each black
woman expects your failure
in mute change, the seed gone.
You plod up into the electric city--
your song now crystal and
the blues. You pick up the horn
with some will and blow
into the freezing night:
a love supreme, a love supreme--
Dawn comes and you cook
up the thick sin 'tween
impotence and death, fuel
the tenor sax cannibal
heart, genitals and sweat
that makes you clean--
a love supreme, a love supreme--
Why you so black?
cause I am
why you so funky?
cause I am
why you so black?
cause I am
why you sweet?
cause I am
why you so black?
cause I am
a love supreme, a love supreme:
So sick you couldn't play Naima,
so flat we ached
for song you'd concealed
with your own blood,
your diseased liver gave
out its purity,
the inflated heart
pumps out, the tenor kiss,
tenor love:
a love supreme, a love supreme--
a love supreme, a love supreme--
"THE ROCK CRIES OUT TO US TODAY"
by Maya Angelou
A Rock, A River, A Tree
Hosts to species long since departed,
Mark the mastodon.
The dinosaur, who left dry tokens
Of their sojourn here
On our planet floor,
Any broad alarm of their of their hastening doom
Is lost in the gloom of dust and ages.
But today, the Rock cries out to us, clearly, forcefully,
Come, you may stand upon my
Back and face your distant destiny,
But seek no haven in my shadow.
I will give you no hiding place down here.
You, created only a little lower than
The angels, have crouched too long in
The bruising darkness,
Have lain too long
Face down in ignorance.
Your mouths spelling words
Armed for slaughter.
The rock cries out today, you may stand on me,
But do not hide your face.
Across the wall of the world,
A river sings a beautiful song,
Come rest here by my side.
Each of you a bordered country,
Delicate and strangely made proud,
Yet thrusting perpetually under siege.
Your armed struggles for profit
Have left collars of waste upon
My shore, currents of debris upon my breast.
Yet, today I call you to my riverside,
If you will study war no more.
Come, clad in peace and I will sing the songs
The Creator gave to me when I
And the tree and stone were one.
Before cynicism was a bloody sear across your brow
And when you yet knew you still knew nothing.
The river sings and sings on.
There is a true yearning to respond to
The singing river and the wise rock.
So say the Asian, the Hispanic, the Jew,
The African and Native American, the Sioux,
The Catholic, the Muslim, the French, the Greek,
The Irish, the Rabbi, the Priest, the Sheikh,
The Gay, the Straight, the Preacher,
The privileged, the homeless, the teacher.
They hear. They all hear
The speaking of the tree.
Today, the first and last of every tree
Speaks to humankind. Come to me, here beside the river.
Plant yourself beside me, here beside the river.
Each of you, descendant of some passed on
Traveller, has been paid for.
You, who gave me my first name,
You Pawnee, Apache and Seneca,
You Cherokee Nation, who rested with me,
Then forced on bloody feet,
Left me to the employment of other seekers--
Desperate for gain, starving for gold.
You, the Turk, the Swede, the German, the Scot...
You the Ashanti, the Yoruba, the Kru,
Bought, sold, stolen, arriving on a nightmare
Praying for a dream.
Here, root yourselves beside me.
I am the tree planted by the river,
Which will not be moved.
I, the rock, I the river, I the tree
I am yours--your passages have been paid.
Lift up your faces, you have a piercing need
For this bright morning dawning for you.
History, despite its wrenching pain,
Cannot be unlived, and if faced with courage,
Need not be lived again.
Lift up your eyes upon
The day breaking for you.
Give birth again
To the dream.
Women, children, men,
Take it into the palms of your hands.
Mold it into the shape of your most
Private need. Sculpt it into
The image of your most public self.
Lift up your hearts.
Each new hour holds new chances
For new beginnings.
Do not be wedded forever
To fear, yoked eternally
To brutishness.
The horizon leans forward,
Offering you space to place new steps of change.
Here, on the pulse of this fine day
You may have the courage
To look up and out upon me,
The rock, the river, the tree, your country.
No less to Midas than the mendicant.
No less to you now than the mastodon then.
Here on the pulse of this new day
You may have the grace to look up and out
And into your sister's eyes,
Into your brother's face, your country
And say simply
Very simply
With hope
Good morning.
'Listen to the mustn'ts'
by Shel Silverstein
Listen to the MUSTN'TS child,
Listen to the DON'TS
Listen to the SHOULDN'TS
The IMPOSSIBLES, the WON'TS
Listen to the NEVER HAVES
Then listen close to me -
Anything can happen, child
ANYTHING can be.
"THE BRIDGE"
by Shel Silverstein
This bridge will only take you halfway there
To those mysterious lands you long to see:
Through gypsy camps and swirling Arab fairs
And moonlit woods where unicorns run free.
So come and walk awhile with me and share
The twisting trails and wondrous worlds I've known.
But this bridge will only take you halfway thereThe last few steps you'll have to take alone.
"A WAS AN ARCHER"
by Anonymous
A was an Archer 
who shot at a frog 
B was a Butcher 
who kept a bull-dog 
C was a Captain 
all covered with lace 
who played with much grace 
with pride on his brow 
F was a Farmer 
who followed the plough 
G was a Gamester 
who had but ill-luck 
H was a Hunter 
and hunted a buck 
I was an Italian 
who had a white mouse 
J was a Joiner 
and build up a house 
K was a King 
so mighty and grand 
L was a Lady 
who had a white hand 
M was a Miser 
who hoarded up gold 
N was a Nobleman 
gallant and bold 
O was an Organ boy 
who played about town 
P was a Parson 
who wore a black gown 
Q was a Queen 
who was fond of her people 
R was a Robin 
who perched on a steeple 
S was a Sailor 
who spent all he got 
T was a Tinker 
who mended a pot 
U was an Usher 
who loved little boys 
V was a Veteran 
who sold pretty toys 
W was a Watchman 
who guarded the door 
X was expensive 
and so became poor 
Y was a Youth 
who did not love school 
Z was a Zany 
who looked a great fool 
"AS WET AS A FISH"
by Anonymous 
As wet as a fish-as dry as a bone; As live as a bird-as dead as a stone; 
As hard as a flint-as soft as a mole; As white as a lily-as black as a coal; 
As heavy as lead-as light as a feather; As steady as time-uncertain as weather; 
As hot as a furnace-as cold as a frog; As gay as a lark—as sick as a dog; 
As slow as a tortoise-as swift as the wind; 
As true as the gospel-as false as mankind; 
As thin as a herring-as fat as a pig;
As proud as a peacock-as blithe as a grig; 
As fierce as a tiger-as mild as a dove; 
As stiff as a poker-as limp as a glove; 
As blind as a bat—as deaf as a post; 
As cool as a cucumber-as warm as a toast; 
As straight as an arrow-as bent as a bow;
As yellow as saffron-as black as a sloe;
As brisk as a bee-as dull as an ass; 
As full as a tick-as solid as brass. 
"THE FATHER'S TREASURE"
by Anonymous
As round their dying father's bed H
is sons attend, the peasant said:
‘Children, deep hid from prying eyes, 
A treasure in my vineyard lies; 
When you have laid me in the grave, 
Dig, search-and your reward you'll have’.
'Father,' cries one, ‘but where's the spot?’ 
-He sighs! he sinks ! but answers not. 
The tedious burial service o'er,
 Home hie his sons, 
and straight explore 
Each corner of the vineyard round; 
Dig up, beat, break, and sift the ground; 
Yet though to search so well inclined, 
Nor gold, nor treasure could they find; 
But when the autumn next drew near, 
A double vintage crowned the year. 
‘Now,’ quoth the peasant's wisest son, 
‘Our father's legacy is known, 
In yon rich purple grapes 'tis seen, 
Which, but for digging, ne'er had been. 
‘Then let us all reflect with pleasure, 
That labor is the source of treasure.’ 
"FOR WANT OF A NAIL"
by Anonymous
For want of a nail, the shoe was lost; 
For want of the shoe, the horse was lost; 
For want of the horse, the rider was lost; 
For want of the rider, the battle was lost; 
For want of the battle, the kingdom was lost. 
And all for the want of a horseshoe nail. 
"HORSE SENSE"
by Anonymous
A horse can't pull while kicking. 
This fact I merely mention. 
And he can't kick while pulling, 
Which is my chief contention. 
Let's imitate the good old horse 
And lead a life that's fitting; 
Just pull an honest load, and then 
There'll be no time for kicking. 
"IF ALL THE SEAS WERE ONE SEA"
by Anonymous
If all the seas were one sea, 
What a great sea that would be! 
If all the trees were one tree, 
What a great tree that would be! 
And if all the axes were one axe, 
What a great big axe that would be! 
And if all the men were one man, 
What a great man that would be! 
And if the great man took the great axe 
And cut down the great tree, 
And let it fall into the great sea, 
What a splish-splash that would be! 
"LIVING" 
by Anonymous
To touch the cup with eager lips and taste-not drain it; 
To woo and tempt and court a bliss-and not attain it; 
To fondle and caress a joy, 
yet hold it lightly, 
Lest it become necessity and cling too tightly; 
To watch the sun set in the west without regretting; 
To hail its advent in the east-the night forgetting; 
To smother care in happiness and grief in laughter; 
To hold the present close-not questioning hereafter; 
To have enough to share-to know the joy of giving; 
To thrill with all the sweets of life-is living.
"THE HAPPY LIFE"
by Henry Howard
The things for to attain 
The happy life be these, I find : 
The riches left, not got with pain; 
The fruitful ground, the quiet mind; 
The equal friend; no grudge nor strife;
Without disease the healthful life;
The mean diet, no delicate fare; 
Wisdom joined with simplicity; 
Contended with thine own estate; 
Neither wish death, nor fear his might. 
"MY MIND TO ME A KINGDOM IS"
by Edward Dyer
My mind to me a kingdom is Such perfect joy therein I find, 
That it excels all other bliss 
That world affords or grows by kind. 
Though much I want which most would have, 
Yet still my mind forbids to crave. 
I see how plenty suffers oft, 
And hasty climbers soon do fall; 
I see that those which are aloft 
Mishap doth threaten most of all;
They get with toil, they keep with fear; 
Such cares my mind could never bear. 
Some have too much, yet still do crave, 
I little have, and seek no more:
They are but poor, though much they have, 
And I am rich with little store : 
They poor, I rich; 
they beg, I give; 
They lack, I leave; 
they pine, I live. 
I laugh not at another's loss, 
I grudge not at another's gain; 
No worldly waves my mind can toss, 
My state at one doth still remain, 
I fear no foe, I fawn no friend; 
I loathe not life, nor dread no end.
My wealth is health and perfect ease, 
My conscience clear my chief defense; 
I neither seek by bribes to please, 
Nor by desert to breed offence. 
Thus do I live, thus will I die; 
Would all did so, as well as I. 
"THE CORN" 
Michael Drayton
The corn, that in the ground is sown, first dies, 
And of one seed do many ears arise; 
Love, this world's corn, by dying multiples. 
"WHEN IN DISGRACE... "
by William Shakespeare
When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes 
I all alone beweep my outcast state, 
And look upon myself, and curse my fate, 
Haply I think on thee, and then my state, 
Like to the lark at break of day arising 
From sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven's gate; 
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings 
That then I scorn to change my state with kings. 
"THE MAN OF LIFE UPRIGHT"
by Thomas Campion
The man of life upright,
Whose guiltless heart is free 
From all dishonest deeds 
Or thought of vanity : 
The man whose silent days In harmless joy are spent, 
Whom hopes cannot delude,
Nor sorrow discontent : 
He only can behold 
With unaffrightened eyes 
The horrors of the deep 
And terrors of the skies. 
Thus scorning all the cares 
That fate or fortune brings, 
He makes the heaven his book, 
His wisdom heavenly things, 
Good thoughts his only friends, 
His wealth a well-spent age, 
The earth his sober inn And quiet pilgrimage. 
"SONG IN TIME OF PLAGUE"
by Thomas Nashe
Adieu, farewell earth's bliss! 
This world uncertain is: 
Fond are life's lustful joys, 
Death proves them all but toys. 
None from his darts can fly; 
I am sick, I must die- 
Lord, have mercy on us! 
Rich men, trust not in wealth, 
Gold cannot buy you health; 
Physic himself must fade; 
All things to end are made; 
The plague full shift goes by; 
I am sick, I must die- 
Lord, have mercy on us! 
Beauty is but a flower 
Which wrinkles will devour; 
Brightness falls from the air; 
Queens have died young and fair; 
Dust hath closed Helen's eyes; 
I am sick, I must die- 
Lord, have mercy on us ! 
Haste therefore each degree 
To welcome destiny; 
Heaven is our heritage, 
Earth but a player's stage. 
Mount we unto the sky; 
I am sick, I must die- 
Lord, have mercy on us! 
"A HAPPY LIFE"
by Henry Wotton
How happy is he born and taught 
That serveth not another's will; 
Whose armor is his honest thought,
And simple truth his utmost skill! 
Whose passions not his masters are; 
Whose soul is still prepared for death, 
Untied unto the world by care 
Of public fame or private breath. 
Who hath his life from rumors freed; 
Whose conscience is his strong retreat; 
Whose state can neither flatterers feed, 
Nor ruin make oppressors great. 
This man is freed from servile bands 
Of hope to rise or fear to fall : 
Lord of himself, though not of lands, 
And having nothing yet hath all. 
"THE PLAY"
by Frances Quarles
My soul, sit thou a patient looker-on; 
Judge not the play before the play is done : 
Her plot has many changes; every day 
Speaks a new scene; the last act crowns the play. 
"ON HIS BUNDNESS"
by John Milton
God doth not need 
Either man's work or his own gifts; 
who best Bear his mild yoke, they serve him best. 
His state Is kingly thousands at his bidding speed, 
And post o'er land and ocean without rest; 
They also serve who only stand and wait. 
"CONTEMPLATIONS"
by Anne Bradstreet 
When I behold the heavens as in their prime, 
And then the earth, though old, still clad in green, 
The stones and trees insensible of time, 
Nor age nor wrinkle on their front are seen. 
But man grows old, lies down, remains where once 
he's laid : 
Shall I, then, praise the heavens, the trees, the earth, 
Because their beauty and their strength last longer? 
Shall I wish there or never to had birth, 
Because they're bigger, and their body stronger? 
Nay, they shall darken, perish, fade, and die, 
And when unmade so ever shall they lie :
But man was made for endless immortality.  
"CONTENTMENT"
by John Bunyan 
He that is down needs fear no fall, 
He that is low, no pride; 
He that is humble ever shall 
Have God to be his guide. 
I am content with what I have,
Little be it or much : 
And, Lord, contentment still I crave,
Because Thou savest such. 
Fullness to such a burden is 
That go on pilgrimage : 
Here little, and hereafter bliss, Is best from age to age. 
"THE BLIND BOY"
by Colley Cibber 
O say what is that thing call'd 
Light, 
Which I must ne'er enjoy; 
What are the blessings of the sight, 
O tell your poor blind boy ! 
You talk of wondrous things you see, 
You say the sun shines bright; 
I feel him warm, but how can he 
Or make it day or night ? 
My day or night myself I make 
Whene'er I sleep or play; 
And could I ever keep awake 
With me 'twere always day. 
With heavy sighs I often hear 
You mourn my hapless woe; 
But sure with patience I can bear 
A loss I ne'er can know. 
Then let not what I cannot have 
My cheer of mind destroy : 
Whilst thus I sing, I am a king, 
Although a poor blind boy. 
"THE QUIET LIFE"
by Anonymous
Happy the man, whose wish and care 
A few paternal acres bound, 
Content to breathe his native air 
In his own ground. 
Whose herds with milk, whose fields with bread, 
Whose flocks supply him with attire; 
Whose trees in summer yield him shade, 
In winter, fire. 
Blest, who can unconcern'dly find 
Hours, days, and years, slide soft away 
In health of body, peace of mind, 
Quiet by day, 
Sound sleep by night; study and ease 
Together mix'd; sweet recreation, 
"THE DRUM "
by John Scott Of Amwell 
I hate that drum's discordant sound, 
Parading round, and round, and round: 
To thoughtless youth it pleasure yields, 
And lures from cities and from fields, 
To sell their liberty for charms 
Of tawdry lace, and glittering arms; 
And when Ambition's voice commands, 
To march, and fight, and fall, in foreign lands. 
I hate that drum's discordant sound, 
Parading round, and round, and round: 
To me it talks of ravaged plains, 
And burning towns, and ruined swains, 
And mangled limbs, and dying groans, 
And widows' tears, and orphans' moans; 
And all that Misery's hand bestows 
To fill the catalog of human woes. 
"ME"
by John Wynne
Time's an hand's-breadth; 'tis a tale; 
‘Tis a vessel under sail; 
'Tis an eagle in its way, 
Darting down upon its prey; 
‘Tis an arrow in its flight, 
Mocking the pursuing sight; 
‘Tis a short-lived fading flower; 
‘Tis a rainbow on a shower; 
‘Tis a momentary ray, 
Smiling in a winter's day; 
‘Tis a torrent's rapid stream; 
'Tis a shadow, 'tis a dream; 
'Tis the closing watch of night, 
Dying at the rising light; 
‘Tis a bubble; 'tis a sigh: 
Be prepared, O Man! to die. 
"A STATE"
What constitutes a state? 
Not high-raised battlement or labored mound, 
Thick wall or moated gate; 
Not cities proud with spires and turrets crowned; 
Not bays and broad-armed ports, 
Where, laughing at the storm, rich navies ride; 
Not starred and spangled courts, 
Where low-browed baseness wafts perfume to pride. 
"THE SCHOOLBOY"
by William Blake
I love to rise in a summer morn 
When the birds sing on every tree. 
The distant huntsman winds his horn,
And the sky-lark sings with me. 
O! What sweet company. 
But to go to school in a summer morn, 
O! it drives all joy away; Under a cruel eye outworn, 
The little ones spend the day 
In sighing and dismay. 
How can the bird that is born for joy 
Sit in a cage and sing? 
How can a child, when fears annoy, 
But droop his tender wing, 
And forget his youthful spring? 
O! father and mother, if buds are nip'd 
And blossoms blown away, 
And if the tender plants are strip'd 
Of their joy in the springing day, 
By sorrow and care's dismay, 
How shall the summer arise in joy, 
Or the summer fruits appear? 
Or how shall we gather what griefs destroy, 
Or bless the mellowing year, 
When the blasts of winter appear?  
"PATRIOTISM"
by Walter Scott
Breathes there the man, with soul so dead, 
Who never to himself hath said: 
This is my own, my native land! 
Whose heart hath ne'er within him burned, 
As home his footsteps he hath turned, 
From wandering on a foreign strand!
Land of brown heath and shaggy wood,
Land of the mountain and the flood,
Land of my sires ! what mortal hand 
Can e'er untie the filial band, 
That knits me to thy rugged strand ! 
"A FAMOUS VICTORY"
by Robert Southey
It was a summer evening, 
Old Kaspar's work was done, 
And he before his cottage door
Was sitting in the sun,
And by him sported on the green 
His little grandchild Wilhelmine. Sh
e saw her brother Peterkin 
Roll something large and round, 
Which he beside the rivulet 
In playing there had found; 
He came to ask what he had found, 
That was so large, and smooth, and round. 
Old Kaspar took it from the boy, 
Who stood expectant by; 
And then the old man shook his head, 
And with a natural sigh, 
'Tis some poor fellow's skull, said he, 
Who fell in the great victory. 
I find them in the garden, 
For there's many here about, 
And often when I go to plough, 
The ploughshare turns them out; 
For many thousand men, said he, 
Were slain in the great victory. 
Now tell us what 'twas all about, 
Young Peterkin, he cries, 
And little Wilhelmine looks up 
With wonder-waiting eyes; 
Now tell us all about the war, 
And what they killed each other for. 
It was the English, Kaspar cried, 
That put the French to rout; 
But what they killed each other for, 
I could not well make out; 
But everybody said, quoth he, 
That it was a famous victory. 
My father lived at Blenheim then, 
Yon little stream hard by; 
They burnt his dwelling to the ground 
And he was forced to fly; 
So with his wife and child he fled, 
Nor had he where to rest his head. 
With fire and sword the country round 
Was wasted far and wide, 
And many a childing mother then, 
And new-born baby died. 
But things like that, you know, must be 
At every famous victory.
Great praise the Duke of Marlbro' won, 
And our good Prince Eugene. 
Why 'twas a very wicked thing! 
Said little Wilhelmine. 
Nay-nay-my little girl, quoth he, 
It was a famous victory. 
And everybody praised the Duke 
Who this great fight did win. 
But what good came of it at last? 
Quoth little Peterkin. 
Why that I cannot tell, said he, 
But 'twas a famous victory.
"THE LIGHT OF OTHER DAYS"
by Tomas Moore
Oft in the stilly night, 
Ere slumber's chain has bound me, Fond memory brings the light 
Of other days around me : 
The smiles, the tears 
Of boyhood's years, 
The words of love then spoken; 
The eyes that shone, 
Now dimm'd and gone, 
The cheerful hearts now broken! 
Thus in the stilly night, 
Ere slumber's chain has bound me, 
Sad memory brings the light 
Of other days around me. 
"MY MOTHER"
by Ann Taylor
Who fed me from her gentle breast, 
And hushed me in her arms to rest, 
And on my cheek sweet kisses prest?
My Mother. 
When sleep forsook my open eye, 
Who was it sung sweet hushaby, 
And rocked me that I should not cry?
 My Mother. 
When pain and sickness made me cry, 
Who gazed upon my heavy eye, 
And wept, for fear that I should die ? 
My Mother. 
When thou art feeble, old, and grey, 
My healthy arm shall be thy stay, 
And I will soothe thy pains away, My Mother. 
"HOME, SWEET HOME"
by John Payne
'Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, 
Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home; 
A charm from the sky seems to hallow us there, 
Which, seek through the world, is ne'er met with 
elsewhere. 
Home, home, sweet, sweet home! 
There's no place like home, oh, there's no place 
like home! 
An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain; 
Oh, give me my lowly thatched cottage again! 
The birds singing gayly, that came at my call- 
Give me them—and the peace of mind, dearer 
than all! 
Home, home, sweet, sweet home! 
There's no place like home, 
Oh, there's no place like home! 
I gaze on the moon as I tread the drear wild, 
And feel that my mother now thinks of her child, 
As she looks on that moon from our own cottage door 
Thro' the woodbine, whose fragrance shall cheer me no more. 
Home, home, sweet, sweet home! 
There's no place like home, 
Oh, there's no place like home! 
How sweet 'tis to sit 'neath a fond father's smile, 
And the cares of a mother to soothe and beguile! 
Let others delight 'mid new pleasure to roam, 
But give me, oh, give me, the pleasures of home, 
Home, home, sweet, sweet home! 
There's no place like home, 
Oh, there's no place like home! 
To thee I'll return overburdened with care; 
The heart's dearest solace will smile on me there; 
No more from that cottage again will I roam; 
Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. 
Home, home, sweet, sweet home! 
There's no place like home, 
Oh, there's no place like home! 
"CASABIANCA"
by Felicia Hemans
[Young Casabianca, son of the Admiral of the Orient, 
remained at his post after the ship had taken fire and all the guns had been abandoned, 
and perished in the explosion of the vessel.] 
The boy stood on the burning deck, 
Whence all but him had fled; 
The flame that lit the battle's wreck 
Shone round him o'er the dead. 
Yet beautiful and bright he stood, 
As born to rule the storm; 
A creature of heroic blood, 
A proud though childlike form. 
The flames rolled on; he would not go 
Without his father's word; 
That father, faint in death below, 
His voice no longer heard. 
He called aloud, 'Say, Father, say, 
If yet my task be done !' 
He knew not that the chieftain lay 
Unconscious of his son. 
'Speak, Father !' once again he cried, 
'If I may yet be gone !' 
And but the booming shots replied, 
And fast the flames rolled on. 
Upon his brow he felt their breath, 
And in his waving hair, 
And looked from that lone post of death 
In still yet brave despair; 
And shouted but once more aloud, 
'My father! must I stay?' 
While o'er him fast, through sail and shroud, 
The wreathing fires made way. 
They wrapt the ship in splendor wild, 
They caught the flag on high, 
And streamed above the gallant child, 
Like banners in the sky. 
There came a burst of thunder sound; 
The boy,-Oh! where was he? 
Ask of the winds, that far around 
With fragments strewed the sea,
With shroud and mast and pennon fair, 
That well had borne their part,- 
But the noblest thing that perished there 
Was that young, faithful heart. 
"THE MOTHER'S DREAM" 
I'd a dream to-night 
As I fell asleep, 
Oh! the touching sight 
Makes me still to weep: 
Of my little lad, 
Gone to leave me sad,
Aye, the child I had,
But was not to keep. 
"LEAD, KINDLY LIGHT"
by John H. Newman (1801) 
Lead, kindly light, amid the encircling gloom, 
Lead thou me on! 
The night is dark, and I am far from home, 
Lead thou me on! 
Keep thou my feet! 
I do not ask to see 
The distant scene; one step enough for me. 
I was not ever thus, nor prayed that thou 
Shouldst lead me on; 
I loved to choose and see my path; but now 
Lead thou me on! 
I loved the garish day; and, spite of tears, 
Pride ruled my will remember not past years.
So long thy power has blest me, sure it still 
Will lead me on 
O'er moor and fen, 
O'er crag and torrent, till 
The night is gone; 
And with the morn those angel faces smile, 
Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile. 
"THE MOUNTAIN AND THE SQUIRREL"
by Ralph W. Emerson 
The mountain and the squirrel 
Had a quarrel; 
And the former called the latter Little Prig. 
Bun replied, 
You are doubtless very big; 
But all sorts of things and weather 
Must be taken in together, 
To make up a year 
And a sphere. 
And I think it no disgrace 
To occupy my place. 
If I'm not so large as you, 
You are not so small as I, 
Talents differ; all is well and wisely put; 
If I cannot carry forests on my back, Neither can you crack a nut.
"A PLACE IN THY MEMORY"
by Gerald Griffin
A place in thy memory, dearest, 
Is all that I claim, 
To pause and look back when thou hearest 
The sound of my name. 
Another may woo thee nearer, 
Another may win and wear; 
I care not, though he be dearer, 
If I am remembered there. 
Remember me not as a lover
 Whose fond hopes are crossed, 
Whose bosom can never recover 
The light it has lost; 
As the young bride remembers the mother 
She loves, yet never may see, 
As a sister remembers a brother, 
Oh, dearest, remember me. 
"AMBITION"
by Nathaniel P. Willis (1806) 
What is ambition ? 
'Tis a glorious cheat! 
It seeks the chamber of the gifted boy, 
And lifts his humble window, and comes in; 
The narrow walls expand, and spread away 
Into a kingly palace, and the roof 
Lifts to the sky, and unseen fingers work 
The ceilings with rich blazonry, and write 
His name in burning letters over all. 
And ever, as he shuts his wildered eyes, 
The phantom comes and lays upon his lids 
A spell that murders sleep, and in his ear 
Whispers a deathless word, and on his brain. 
Breathes a fierce thirst no waters will allay. 
He is its slave henceforth. 
His days are spent In chaining down his heart, and watching where 
To rise by human weaknesses. 
His nights 
Bring him no rest in all their blessed hours. 
His kindred are forgotten or estranged; 
Unhealthful fires burn constant in his eye. 
His lip grows restless, and its smile is curled 
Half into scorn: till the bright, fiery boy, 
That 'twas a daily blessing but to see,
His spirit was so bird-like and so pure, 
Is frozen, in the very flush of youth, 
Into a cold, care-fretted, heartless man. 
And what is its reward? 
At best, a name ! 
Praise when the ear has grown too dull to hear; 
Gold when the senses it should please are dead; 
Wreaths — when the hair they cover has grown gray; 
Fame when the heart it should have thrilled is numb; 
All things but love 
when love is all we want; 
And close behind comes 
Death, and ere we know, 
That even these unavailing gifts are ours, 
He sends us, stripped and naked, to the grave. 
"THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH"
by Henry W. Longfellow (1807) 
Under a spreading chestnut-tree 
The village smithy stands; 
The smith, a mighty man is he, With large and sinewy hands; 
And the muscles of his brawny arms 
Are strong as iron bands. 
His hair is crisp, and black, and long, 
His face is like the tan; 
His brow is wet with honest sweat, 
He earns whate'er he can, 
And looks the whole world in the face, 
For he owes not any man. 
Week in, week out, from morn till night, 
You can hear his bellows blow; 
You can hear him swing his heavy sledge, 
With measured beat and slow, 
Like a sexton ringing the village bell, 
When the evening sun is low. 
And children coming home from school 
Look in at the open door; 
They love to see the flaming forge, 
And hear the bellows roar, 
And catch the burning sparks that fly 
Like chaff from a threshing-floor. 
He goes on Sunday to the church, 
And sits among his boys; 
He hears the parson pray and preach, 
He hears his daughter's voice, 
Singing in the village choir, 
And it makes his heart rejoice. 
It sounds to him like her mother's voice, 
Singing in Paradise! 
He needs must think of her once more, 
How in the grave she lies; 
And with his hard, rough hand he wipes
A tear out of his eyes. 
Toiling, rejoicing, sorrowing, 
Onward through life he goes. 
Each morning sees some task begin,
Each evening sees it close; 
Something attempted, something done,
Has earned a night's repose. 
Thanks, thanks to thee, my worthy friend, 
For the lesson thou hast taught ! 
Thus at the flaming forge of life 
Our fortunes must be wrought; 
Thus on its sounding anvil shaped 
Each burning deed and thought. 
"IN SCHOOL-DAYS"
by John G. Whittier (1807) 
Still sits the school-house by the road, 
A ragged beggar sleeping; 
Around it still the sumachs grow, 
And blackberry vines are creeping. 
The charcoal frescoes on its wall; 
Its door's worn sill, betraying 
The feet that, creeping slow to school,
Went storming out to playing! 
Long years ago a winter sun 
Shone over it at setting; 
Lit up its western window-panes, 
And low eaves' icy fretting. 
It touched the tangled golden curls,
And brown eyes full of grieving, 
Of one who still her steps delayed 
When all the school were leaving. 
For near her stood the little boy 
Her childish favor singled; 
His cap pulled low upon a face 
Where pride and shame were mingled. 
Pushing with restless feet the snow 
To right and left, he lingered 
As restlessly her tiny hands 
The blue-checked apron fingered. 
He saw her lift her eyes; he felt
The soft hand's light caressing, 
And heard the tremble of her voice, 
As if a fault confessing. 
I'm sorry that I spelt the word: 
I hate to go above you, 
Because,
the brown eyes lower fell
Because, you see, I love you !
Still memory to a grey-haired man
That sweet child-face is showing. 
Dear girl! the grasses on her grave 
Have forty years been growing. 
He lives to learn, in life's hard school,
 How few who pass above him 
Lament their triumph and his loss, 
Like her, because they love him. 
"THEN LAUGH"
by Bertha A. Backus (fl. 1811)
Build for yourself a strong box, 
Fashion each part with care; 
When it's strong as your hand can make it, 
Put all your troubles there; 
Hide there all thought of your failures, 
And each bitter cup that you quaff; 
Lock all your heartaches within it, Then sit on the lid and laugh. 
Tell no one else its contents, 
Never its secrets share; 
When you've dropped in your care and worry, 
Keep them forever there; 
Hide them from sight so completely 
That the world will never dream half; 
Fasten the strong box securely- 
Then sit on the lid and laugh. 
"TRUST"
by Frances A. Kemble (1809) 
Better trust all and be deceived, 
And weep that trust and that deceiving, 
Than doubt one heart, that if believed 
Had blessed one's life with true believing. 
Oh, in this mocking world too fast 
The doubting friend o'ertakes our youth; 
Better be cheated to the last 
Than lose the blessed hope of truth. 
"THE PATRIOT"
by Robert Browning (1812) 
It was roses, roses, all the way, 
With myrtle mixed in my path like mad; 
The house-roofs seemed to heave and sway; 
The church-spires flamed, such flags they had 
A year ago on this very day. 
The air broke into a mist with bells; 
The old walls rocked with the crowd and cries; 
Had I said ‘Good folk, mere noise repels; 
But give me your sun from yonder skies !’ 
They had answered, ‘And afterward, what else?’
Alack, it was I who leaped at the sun, 
To give it my loving friends to keep; 
Nought man could do have I left undone; 
And you see my harvest, what I reap 
This very day, now a year is run. 
There's nobody on the house-tops now
Just a palsied few at the windows set; 
For the best of the sights is, all allow, 
At the Shamble's Gate-or, better yet, 
By the very scaffold's foot, I trow. 
I go in the rain, and, more than needs, 
A rope cuts both my wrists behind; 
And I think, by the feel, my forehead bleeds, 
For they fling, whoever has a mind, 
Stones at me for my year's misdeeds. 
Thus I entered, and thus I go ! 
In triumphs, people have dropped down dead;
‘Paid by the world, what dost thou owe Me?’
God might question.
Now, instead, ‘Tis God shall repay : 
I am safer so. 
"THE BLIND MEN AND THE ELEPHANT"
by John Saxe (1816) 
It was six men of Indostan 
To learning much inclined, 
Who went to see the elephant, 
Though all of them were blind,
That each by observation 
Might satisfy his mind. 
The First approached the elephant, 
And, happening to fall 
Against his broad and sturdy side, 
At once began to bawl: 
‘God bless me! 
but the elephant Is nothing but a wall !’ 
The Second, feeling of the tusk, 
Cried: ‘Ho! what have we here 
So very round and smooth and sharp ? 
To me 'tis mighty clear 
This wonder of an elephant 
Is very like a spear!’
The Third approached the animal, 
And, happening to take 
The squirming trunk within his hands, 
Thus boldly up and spake : 
‘I see,’ quoth he, ‘the elephant 
Is very like a snake!’
The Fourth reached out his eager hand, 
And felt about the knee : 
‘What most this wondrous beast is like Is mighty plain,’ quoth he; 
‘Tis clear enough the elephant Is very like a tree.’
The Fifth, who changed to touch the ear, 
Said: 'E'en the blindest man 
Can tell what this resembles most; 
Deny the fact who can, 
This marvel of an elephant Is very like a fan!’
The Sixth no sooner had begun 
About the beast to grope, 
Than, seizing on the swinging tail 
That fell within his scope, 
‘I see,’ quoth he, ‘the elephant 
Is very like a rope!’
And so these men of Indostan 
Disputed loud and long, 
Each in his own opinion 
Exceeding stiff and strong, 
Though each was partly in the right, 
And all were in the wrong! 
So, oft in theologic wars 
The disputants, I ween, 
Rail on in utter ignorance
Of what each other mean, 
And prate about an elephant
Not one of them has seen ! 
"ALL THINGS BRIGHT AND BEAUTIFUL"
by Cecil F. Alexander (1818) 
All things bright and beautiful, 
All creatures great and small,
All things wise and wonderful, 
The Lord God made them all. 
Each little flower that opens,
Each little bird that sings, 
He made their glowing colors, 
He made their tiny wings. 
The purple-headed mountain, 
The river running by, 
The sunset, and the morning, 
That brightens up the sky; 
The cold wind in the winter, 
The pleasant summer sun, 
The ripe fruits in the garden, 
He made them every one. 
He gave us eyes to see them, 
And lips that we might tell, 
How great is God Almighty,
Who has made all things well. 
"WHERE LIES THE LAND?"
by Arthur H. Clough (1819) 
Where lies the land to which the ship would go ? 
Far, far ahead, is all her seamen know. 
And where the land she travels from?
Away, Far, far behind, is all that they can say. 
On sunny noon upon the deck's smooth face, 
Linked arm in arm, how pleasant here to pace;
Or, o'er the stern reclining, watch below 
The foaming wake far widening as we go. 
On stormy nights when wild north-westers rave, 
How proud a thing to fight with the wind and wave! 
The dripping sailor on the reeling mast 
Exults to bear, and scorns to wish it past. 
Where lies the land to which the ship would go ? 
Far, far ahead, is all her seamen know. 
And where the land she travels from? 
Away Far, far behind, is all that they can say. 
"COUNT THAT DAY LOST"
by George Eliot (1819) 
If you sit down at set of sun 
And count the acts that you have done, 
And, counting, find 
One self-denying deed, one word 
That eased the heart of him who heard;
One glance most kind, 
That fell like sunshine where it went- 
Then you may count that day well spent. 
But if, through all the livelong day, 
You've cheered no heart, by yea or nay - 
If, through it all 
You've nothing done that you can trace 
That brought the sunshine to one face
No act most small 
That helped some soul and nothing cost 
Then count that day as worse than lost. 
"GOD, GIVE US MEN!" 
by Josiah G. Holland (1819) 
God, give us men !
A time like this demands 
Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and ready hands; 
Men whom the lust of office does not kill; 
Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy; 
Men who possess opinions and a will; 
Men who have honor; men who will not lie; 
Men who can stand before a demagogue 
And damn his treacherous flatteries without winking! 
Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog 
In public duty and in private thinking; 
For while the rabble, with their thumb-worn creeds, 
Mingle in selfish strife, lo! freedom weeps, 
Wrong rules the land and waiting Justice sleeps. 
"STANZAS ON FREEDOM "
by James R. Lowell (1819)
Men ! whose boast it is that ye 
Come of fathers brave and free, 
If there breathe on earth a slave, 
Are you truly free and brave? 
If ye do not feel the chain, 
When it works a brother's pain, 
Are ye not base slaves indeed 
Slaves unworthy to be freed? 
Is true freedom but to break 
Fetters for our own dear sake, 
And, with leathern hearts, forget 
That we owe mankind a debt ?
No! true freedom is to share 
All the chains our brothers wear, 
And, with heart and hand, to be 
Earnest to make others free! 
They are slaves who fear to speak 
For the fallen and the weak; 
They are slaves who will not choose 
Hatred, scoffing, and abuse, 
Rather than in silence shrink 
From the truths they needs must think; 
They are slaves who dare not be 
In the right with two or three. 
"NOVEMBER"
by Alice Cary (1820)
The leaves are fading and falling, 
The winds are rough and wild, 
The birds have ceased their calling, 
But let me tell you, my child. 
Though day by day, as it closes, 
Doth darker and colder grow, 
The roots of the bright red roses 
Will keep alive in the snow. 
And when the Winter is over, 
The boughs will get new leaves, 
The quail come back to the clover, 
And the swallow back to the eaves. 
The leaves to-day are whirling, 
The brooks are dry and dumb, 
But let me tell you, my darling, 
The Spring will be sure to come. 
So, when some dear joy loses Its beauteous summer flow, 
Think how the roots of the roses 
Are kept alive in the snow. 
"LITTLE THINGS"
by Julia A. Carney (1823)
Little drops of water, 
Little grains of sand, 
Make the mighty ocean 
And the beauteous land. 
And the little moments,
 Humble though they be, 
Make the mighty ages 
Of eternity. 
"NO FUNERAL GLOOM "
by William Allingham 1824
No funeral gloom, my dears, when I am gone, 
Corpse-gazing, tears, black raiment, grave-yard grimness. 
Think of me as withdrawn into the dimness, yours still, you mine. 
Remember all the best of our past moments and forget the rest, 
And so to where I wait come gently on.
"THIS WARM WORLD"
by William Cory (1823) 
You promise heavens free from strife, 
But sweet sweet is this human life, 
Your chilly stars I can forgo, 
This warm kind world is all I know. 
All beauteous things for which we live 
By laws of time and space decay. 
But oh, the very reason why 
I clasp them, is because they die. 
"MY MOTHER'S GARDEN"
by Elizabeth A. Allen (1832) 
Her heart is like her garden, 
Old fashioned, quaint and sweet,
With here a wealth of blossoms, 
And there a still retreat.
 Sweet violets are hiding, 
We know as we pass by, 
And lilies, pure as angel thoughts, 
Are opening somewhere high. 
Forget-me-nots there linger, 
To full perfection brought, 
And there bloom purple pansies In many a tender thought. 
There love's own roses blossom,
As from enchanted ground, 
And lavish perfume exquisite 
The whole glad year around. 
And in that quiet garden 
The garden of her heart 
Song birds are always singing 
Their songs of cheer apart. 
And from it floats for ever, 
O'ercoming sin and strife, 
Sweet as the breath of roses blown, 
The fragrance of her life. 
"A LITTLE WORK"
by George du Maurier (1834) 
A little work, a little play 
To keep us going and so, good-day! 
A little warmth, a little light 
Of love's bestowing and so, good-night! 
A little fun, to match the sorrow 
Of each day's growing and so, good-morrow! 
A little trust that when we die 
We reap our sowing! And so - good-bye! 
"BEAUTIFUL THINGS"
by Ellen P. Allerton
Beautiful faces are those that wear
It matters little if dark or fair
Whole-souled honesty printed ther
Beautiful eyes are those that show, 
Like crystal panes where hearth fires glow,
Beautiful thoughts that burn below. 
Beautiful lips are those whose words 
Leap from the heart like songs of birds, 
Yet whose utterance prudence girds. 
Beautiful hands are those that do 
Work that is honest and brave and true, 
Moment by moment the long day through. 
Beautiful feet are those that go, 
On kindly ministries to and fro, 
Down lowliest ways, if God wills it so. 
Beautiful shoulders are those that bear 
Ceaseless burdens of homely care
 With patient grace and daily prayer. 
Beautiful lives are those that bless 
Silent rivers of happiness, 
Whose hidden fountains but few may guess. 
Beautiful twilight at set of sun,
Beautiful goal with race well won, 
Beautiful rest with work well done. 
Beautiful graves where grasses creep, 
Where brown leaves fall, where drifts lie deep
Over worn-out hands -oh! beautiful sleep! 
"YOUR MISSION"
by Ellen M. Gates (1835) 
If you are too weak to journey
Up the mountain, steep and high, 
You can stand within the valley, 
While the multitude go by. 
You can chant in happy measure, 
As they slowly pass along; 
Though they may forget the singer, 
They will not forget the song 
If you cannot in the conflict 
Prove yourself a soldier true, 
If where the fire and smoke are thickest 
There's no work for you to do, 
When the battlefield is silent,
You can go with a careful tread; 
You can bear away the wounded, 
You can cover up the dead. 
Do not then stand idly waiting 
For some greater work to do; 
Fortune is a lazy goddess, 
She will never come to you. 
Go and toil in any vineyard, 
Do not fear to do or dare;
If you want a field of labor, 
You can find it anywhere. 
"THERE IS NO DEATH!"
by J. L. McCreery (1835) 
There is no death! 
The stars go down 
To rise upon some other shore, 
And bright in heaven's jewelled crown 
They shine forevermore. 
There is no death! 
The forest leaves 
Convert to life the viewless air; 
The rocks disorganize to feed 
The hungry moss they bear. 
There is no death! 
The dust we tread 
Shall change, beneath the summer showers 
To golden grain, or mellowed fruit, 
Or rainbow-tinted flowers. 
There is no death! 
The leaves may fall, 
And flowers may fade and pass away 
They only await, through wintry hours, 
The warm, sweet breath of May. 
There is no death! The choicest gifts 
That heaven hath kindly lent to earth 
Are ever first to seek again 
The country of their birth. 
And all things that for growth or joy 
Are worthy of our love or care, 
Whose loss has left us desolate,
Are safely garnered there. 
Though life become a desert waste, 
We know its fairest, sweetest flowers, 
Transplanted into Paradise, 
Adorn immortal bowers. 
The voice of birdlike melody 
That we have missed and mourned so long, 
Now mingles with the angel choir 
In everlasting song. 
There is no death! 
Although we grieve 
When beautiful, familiar forms 
That we have learned to love are torn 
From our embracing arms — 
Although with bowed and breaking heart,
With sable garb and silent tread, 
We bear their senseless dust to rest, 
And say that they are 'dead', 
They are not dead! 
They have but passed 
Beyond the mists that blind us here
Into the new and larger life 
Of that serener sphere. 
They have but dropped their robe of clay 
To put their shining raiment on; 
They have not wandered for away - 
They are not 'lost' nor 'gone'.
Though disenthralled and glorified 
They still are here and love us yet; 
The dear ones they have left behind 
They never can forget. 
And sometimes, when our hearts grow faint 
Amid temptations fierce and deep, 
Or when the wildly raging waves 
Of grief or passion sweep, 
We feel upon our fevered brow 
Their gentle touch, their breath of balm; 
Their arms enfold us, and our hearts 
Grow comforted and calm. 
And ever near us, though unseen, 
The dear immortal spirits tread — 
For all the boundless universe 
Is Life there are no dead! 
"EVEN THIS SHALL PASS AWAY" 
by Theodore Tilton (1835) 
Once in Persia reigned a king, 
Who upon his signet ring, 
Graved a maxim true and wise, 
Which, if held before his eyes, 
Gave him counsel at a glance 
Fit for every change and chance. 
Solemn words, and these are they :
‘Even this shall pass away.’ 
Trains of camels through the sand 
Brought him gems from Samarkand; 
Fleets of galleys through the seas 
Brought him pearls to match with these; 
But he counted not his gain 
Treasures of the mine or main; 
‘What is wealth?’ the King would say; 
‘Even this shall pass away.' 
'Mid the revels of his court, 
At the zenith of his court, 
When the palms of all his guests 
Burned with clapping at his jests, 
He, amid his figs and wine, 
Cried, ‘O loving friends of mine; 
Pleasures come, but not to stay; 
Even, this shall pass away.’
Lady, fairest ever seen, 
Was the bride he crowned his queen. 
Pillowed on his marriage bed, 
Softly to his soul he said: 
‘Though no bridegroom ever pressed 
Fairer bosom to his breast, 
Mortal flesh must come to clay 
Even this shall pass away.' 
Fighting on a furious field, 
Once a javelin pierced his shield; 
Soldiers with a loud lament 
Bore him bleeding to his tent. 
Groaning from his tortured side, 
‘Pain is hard to bear,’ he cried, 
‘But with patience, day by day, 
Even this shall pass away.’ 
Towering in the public square, 
Twenty cubits in the air, 
Rose his statue, carved in stone. 
Then the king, disguised, unknown, 
Stood before his sculptured name, 
Musing meekly, ‘What is fame? 
Fame is but a slow decay; 
Even this shall pass away. 
Struck with palsy, sore and old, 
Waiting at the Gates of Gold, 
Said he with his dying breath, 
‘Life is done, but what is Death?’ 
Then in answer to the King, 
Fell a sunbeam on his ring, 
Showing by a heavenly ray, 
Even this shall pass away. 
"THIS, TOO, SHALL PASS AWAY" 
by Lanta Smith (1836) 
When some sorrow, like a mighty river, 
Flows through your life with peace-destroying power,
And dearest things are swept from sight forever, 
Say to your heart each trying hour: 
‘This, too, shall pass away.’ 
When ceaseless toil has hushed your song of gladness, 
And you have grown almost too tired to pray,
Let this truth banish from your heart its sadness,
And ease the burdens of each trying day : 
‘This, too, shall pass away.’
When fortune smiles and full of mirth and pleasure, 
The days are flitting by without a care, 
Lest you should rest with only earthly treasure,
Let these few words their fullest import bear : 
‘This, too, shall pass away.’
When earnest labor brings you fame and glory, 
And all earth's noblest ones upon you smile,
Remember that life's longest, grandest story 
Fills but a moment in earth's little while : 
‘This, too, shall pass away.' 
‘NEW FRIENDS AND OLD FRIENDS ‘
by Joseph Parry (1841) 
Make new friends, but keep the old; 
Those are silver, these are gold. 
New-made friendships, like new wine, 
Age will mellow and refine. 
Friendships that have stood the test
Time and change are surely best; 
Brow may wrinkle, hair grow gray, 
Friendship never knows decay. 
For 'mid old friends, tried and true, 
Once more our youth we renew. 
But old friends, alas ! may die, 
New friends must their place supply. 
Cherish friendship in your breast
New is good, but old is best; 
Make new friends, but keep the old; 
Those are silver, these are gold. 
"THE CRY OF A DREAMER"
by John B. O'reilly (1844) 
I am tired of planning and toiling 
In the crowded hives of men; 
Heart-weary of building and spoiling,
And spoiling and building again. 
And I long for the dear old river, 
Where I dreamed my youth away; 
For a dreamer lives forever, 
And a toiler dies in a day. 
I am sick of the showy seeming 
Of a life that is half a lie; 
Of the faces lined with scheming In the throng that hurries by.
From the sleepless thoughts' endeavor,
I would go where the children play; 
For a dreamer lives forever, 
And a thinker dies in a day. 
I can feel no pride, but pity 
For the burdens the rich endure; 
There is nothing sweet in the city 
But the patient lives of the poor. 
Oh, the little hands too skillful 
And the child mind choked with weeds!
The daughter's heart grown wilful, 
And the father's heart that bleeds! 
No, no! from the street's rude bustle, 
From trophies of mart and stage, 
I would fly to the woods' low rustle
And the meadows' kindly page. 
Let me dream as of old by the river, 
And be loved for the dream alway; 
For a dreamer lives forever, 
And a toiler dies in a day.
"THE VAGABOND "
by Robert L. Stevenson (1850)
Give to me the life I love, 
Let the lave go by me; 
Give the jolly heaven above 
And the byway nigh me. 
Bed in the bush with stars to see, 
Bread I dip in the river - 
There's the life for a man like me, 
There's the life for ever. 
Let the blow fall soon or late, 
Let what will be o'er me; 
Give the face of earth around 
And the road before me. 
Wealth I seek not, hope nor love, 
Nor a friend to know me; 
All I seek, the heaven above, 
And the road below me. 
"YOU NEVER CAN TELL "
by Ella W. Wilcox (1850) 
You never can tell when you send a word 
Like an arrow shot from the bow 
By an archer blind, be it cruel or kind, 
Just where it may chance to go. 
It may pierce the breast of your dearest friend, 
Tipped with its poison or balm, 
To a stranger's heart in life's great mart 
It may carry its pain or its calm. 
You never can tell when you do an act 
Just what the result will be, 
But with every deed you are sowing a seed, 
Though the harvest you may not see. 
Each kindly act is an acorn dropped 
In god's productive soil; 
You may not know, but the tree shall grow
With shelter for those who toil. 
You never can tell what your thoughts will do 
In bringing you hate or love, 
For thoughts are things, and their airy wings 
Are swifter than carrier doves. 
They follow the law of the universe 
Each thing must create its kind, 
And they speed o'er the track to bring you back 
Whatever went out from your mind. 
"THE OSTRICH IS A SILLY BIRD"
by Mary E. Freeman (1852)
The ostrich is a silly bird,
With scarcely any mind. 
He often runs so very fast, 
He leaves himself behind. 
And when he gets there, has to stand 
And hang about till night, 
Without a blessed thing to do 
Until he comes in sight. 
"THE MAN WITH THE HOE"
by Edwin Markham (1852) 
Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans 
Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground, 
The emptiness of ages in his face, 
And on his back the burden of the world. 
Who made him dead to rapture and despair, 
A thing that grieves not and that never hopes, 
Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox? 
Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw? 
Whose was the hand that slanted back this brow? 
Whose breath blew out the light within this brain?
Is this the Thing the Lord God made and gave 
To have dominion over sea and land, 
To trace the stars and search the heavens for power, 
To feel the passion of Eternity ? 
Is this the Dream 
He dreamed who shaped the suns 
And pillared the blue firmament with light ? 
Down all the stretch of hell to its last gulf 
There is no shape more terrible than this 
More tongued with censure of the world's blind greed 
More filled with signs and portents for the soul 
More fraught with menace to the universe. 
What gulfs between him and the seraphim! 
Slaves of the wheel of labor, what to him 
Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades? 
What the long reaches of the peaks of song, 
The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose ? 
Through this dread shape the suffering ages look; 
Time's tragedy is in that aching stoop; 
Through this dread shape humanity betrayed, 
Plundered, profaned, and disinherited, 
Cried protest to the Judges of the World, 
A protest that is also prophecy. 
O masters, lords, and rulers in all lands, 
Is this the handiwork you give to God, 
This monstrous thing distorted and soul-quenched? 
How will you ever straighten up this shape, 
Touch it again with immortality; 
Give back the upward looking and the light; 
Rebuild in it the music and the dream; 
Make right the immemorial infamies, 
Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes ? 
O masters, lords, and rulers in all lands, 
How will the Future reckon with this Man? 
How answer his brute question in that hour 
When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world? 
How will it be with kingdoms and with kings 
With those who shaped him to the thing he is 
When this dumb Terror shall reply to God, 
After the silence of the centuries?
"A LITTLE SONG OF LIFE "
by Lizette W. Reese (1856) 
Glad that I live am I; 
That the sky is blue; 
Glad for the country lanes, 
And the fall of dew. 
After the sun the rain; 
After the rain the sun; 
This is the way of life, 
Till the work be done. 
All that we need to do, 
Be we low or high, 
Is to see that we grow 
Nearer the sky. 
"BE STRONG!" 
by Maltbie D. Babcock (1858) 
Be strong! 
Say not, ‘The days are evil; who's to blame?’ 
And fold the hands and acquiesce oh, shame! 
Stand up, speak out, and bravely, in God's name. 
Be strong! 
It matters not how deep intrenched the wrong,
How hard the battle goes, the day how long; 
Faint not fight on! Tomorrow comes the song. 
Be strong! 
We are not here to play, to dream, to drift; 
We have hard work to do and loads to lift; 
Shun not the struggle face it; 'tis God's gift. 
"THE HOUSE BY THE SIDE OF THE ROAD"
by Sam W. Foss (1858)
There are hermit souls that live withdrawn 
In the peace of their self-content; 
There are souls, like stars, that dwell apart, 
In a fellowless firmament; 
There are pioneer souls that blaze their paths 
Where highways never ran; 
But let me live by the side of the road 
And be a friend to man. 
Let me live in a house by the side of the road, 
Where the race of men go by 
The men who are good and the men who are bad, 
As good and as bad as I. 
I would not sit in the scorner's seat, 
Or hurl the cynic's ban; 
Let me live in a house by the side of the road, 
And be a friend to man
I know there are brook-gladdened meadows ahead,
And mountains of wearisome height, 
That the road passes on through the long afternoon 
And stretches away to the night. 
But still I rejoice when the travelers rejoice, 
And weep with the strangers that moan, 
Nor live in my house by the side of the road, 
Like a man who dwells alone. 
Let me live in my house by the side of the road 
Where the race of men go by 
They are good, they are bad, they are weak, they are strong, 
Wise, foolish - So am I. 
Then why should I sit in the scorner's seat 
Or hurl the cynic's ban ? - 
Let me live in my house by the side of the road 
And be a friend to man. 
I know there are brook-gladdened meadows ahead
And the mountains of wearisome height
That the road passes through the long afternoon
And stretches away to the night.
Nor live in my house by the side of the road
Like a man who dwells alone.
Let me live in my house by the side of the roads
Where the race of men go by
They are good, they are bad, they are weak, they are strong.
Wise, foolish - So am i.
Then why should I sit in the scorner’s seat
Or hurl the cynic’s ban?
Let me live in my house by the side of the road
And be a friend to man.
"THE FLAG OF PEACE"
by Charlotte P. Gilman (1860) 
Men long have fought for their flying flags, 
They have died those flags to save; 
Their long staves rest on the shattered breast,
They are planted deep in the grave. 
Now the world's new flag is streaming wide,
Far flying wide and high. 
It shall cover the earth from side to side 
As the rainbow rings the sky. 
The flag of the day when men shall stand 
For service, not for fight; 
When every race, in every land, 
Shall join for the world's delight; 
When all our flags shall blend in one, 
And all our wars shall cease, 
'Neath the new flag, the true flag, 
The rainbow flag of peace. 
"OUT ON THE FIELDS"
by Louise l. Guiney (1861) 
The little cares that fretted me, 
I lost them yesterday 
Among the fields above the sea, 
Among the winds at play; 
Among the lowing of the herds, 
The rustling of the tress, 
Among the singing of the birds, 
The humming of the bees. 
The foolish fears of what might happen, 
I cast them all away 
Among the clover-scented grass, 
Among the new-mown hay; 
Among the husking of the corn, 
Where drowsie poppies nod, 
Where ill thoughts die and good are born, 
Out in the fields with God. 
"PLAY UP I PLAY UP !"
by Henry Newbolt (1862)
There's a breathless hush in the Close to-night 
Ten to make and the match to win, 
A bumping pitch and a blinding light,
 An hour to play and the last man in. 
And it's not for the sake of a ribboned coat
Or the selfish hope of a season's fame, 
But his captain's hand on his shoulder smote 
‘Play up! play up! and play the game! 
The sand of the desert is sodden red, 
Red with the wreck of a square that broke, 
The Gatling's jammed and the colonel dead, 
And the regiment blind with dust and smoke. 
The river of death has brimmed his banks, 
And England's far, and 
Honor a name, 
But the voice of a schoolboy rallies the ranks, 
‘Play up! Play up! and play the game !’
This is the word that year by year 
While in her place the School is set 
Every one of her sons must hear, 
And none that hears it dare forget. 
This they all with a joyful mind 
Bear through life like a torch in flame,
And falling fling to the host behind
‘Play up! Play up! and play the game!’
"IF"
by Rudyard Kipling (1865) 
If you can keep your head when all about you 
Are losing theirs and blaming it on you; 
If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, 
But make allowance for their doubting too;
If you can wait and not be tired by waiting, 
Or, being lied about, don't deal in lies, 
Or, being hated, don't give way to hating,
And yet don't look too good, nor talk too wise; 
If you can dream - and not make dreams your master; 
If you can think and not make thoughts your aim; 
If you can meet with triumph and disaster 
And treat those two impostors just the same;
If you can bear to hear the truth you've spoken 
Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools, 
Or watch the things you gave your life to broken, 
And stoop and build 'em up with wornout tools; 
If you can make one heap of all your winnings 
And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss, 
And lose, and start again at your beginnings 
And never breathe a word about your loss; 
If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew 
To serve your turn long after they are gone, 
And so hold on when there is nothing in you 
Except the Will which says to them: 'Hold on'; 
If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, 
Or walk with kings nor lose the common touch; 
If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you; 
If all men count with you, but none too much; 
If you can fill the unforgiving minute 
With sixty seconds' worth of distance run 
Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it, 
you'll be a Man, my son ! 
And which is more 
"OPPORTUNITY"
by Walter Malone (1866)
They do me wrong who say I come no more 
When once I knock and fail to find you in,
For every day I stand outside your door
And bid you wake, and rise to fight and win.
Wait not for precious chances passed away,
Weep not for golden ages on the wane!
Each night I burn the records of the day; 
At sunrise every soul is born again. 
Laugh like a boy at splendors that have sped, 
To vanished joys be blind and deaf and dumb; 
My judgements seal the dead past with its dead, 
But never bind a moment yet to come. 
Tho' deep in mire, wring not your hands and weep; 
I lend my arm to all who say, 'I can !'
No shamefaced outcast ever sank so deep
But yet might rise and be again a man.
"FOR THE FALLEN"
by Laurence Binyon (1869) 
There is music in the midst of desolation 
And a glory that shines upon our tears. 
They went with songs to the battle, they were young, 
Straight of limb, true of eye, steady and aglow.
They shall grow not old, as we that are left grow old: 
Age shall not weary them, nor the years condemn.
At the going down of the sun and in the morning
We will remember them.
To the innermost heart of their own land they are known 
As the stars are known to the Night. 
As the stars that are starry in the time of our darkness, 
To the end, to the end, they remain. 
"LEISURE"
by William H. Davies (1871) 
What is this life if, full of care, 
We have no time to stand and stare. 
No time to stand beneath the boughs 
And stare as long as sheep or cows. 
No time to see, when woods we pass, 
Where squirrels hide their nuts in grass. 
No time to see, in broad daylight, 
Streams full of stars, like skies at night. 
"THE HAMMERS"
by Ralph Hodgson (1871) 
Noise of hammers once I heard, 
Many hammers, busy hammers, 
Beating, shaping, night and day, 
Shaping, beating dust and clay 
To a palace; saw it reared; 
Saw the hammers laid away. 
And I listened, and I heard 
Hammers beating, night and day,
In the palace newly reared, 
Beating it to dust and clay : 
Other hammers, muffled hammers, 
Silent hammers of decay. 
"A PRAYER"
by Max Ehrman (1872) 
Let me do my work each day; 
And if the darkened hours of despair overcome me, 
May I not forget the strength that comforted me 
In the desolation of other times. 
May I still remember the bright hours that found me 
Walking over the silent hills of my childhood,
Or dreaming on the margin of the quiet river, 
When a light glowed within me, 
And I promised my early God to have courage 
Amid the tempests of the changing years. 
Spare me from bitterness 
And from the sharp passions of unguarded moments. 
May I not forget that poverty and riches are of the spirit. 
Though the world know me not, 
May my thoughts and actions be such 
As shall keep me friendly with myself.
Lift my eyes from the earth, 
And let me not forget the uses of the stars.
Forbid that I should judge others, 
Lest I condemn myself. 
Let me not follow the clamor of the world, 
But walk calmly in my path. 
Give me a few friends who will love me for what I am; 
And keep ever burning before my vagrant steps 
The kindly light of hope. 
And though age and infirmity overtake me, 
And I come not within sight of the castle of my dreams, 
Teach me still to be thankful for life, 
And for time's olden memories that are good and sweet; 
And may the evening's twilight find me gentle still. 
"THE ROAD NOT TAKEN"
by Robert Frost (1874)
Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,
And sorry I could not travel both 
And be one traveller, long I stood 
And looked down one as far as I could 
To where it bent in the undergrowth; 
Then took the other, as just as fair, 
And having perhaps the better claim, 
Because it was grassy and wanted wear; 
Though as for that the passing there 
Had worn them really about the same; 
And both that morning equally lay 
In leaves no step had trodden black. 
Oh, I kept the first for another day!
Yet knowing how way leads on to way, 
I doubted if I should ever come back. 
I shall be telling this with a sigh 
Somewhere ages and ages hence: 
Two roads diverged in a wood, and I - 
I took the one less travelled by, 
And that has made all the difference. 
"HOLD FAST YOUR DREAMS!"
by Louise Driscoll (1875) 
Hold fast your dreams! 
Within your heart 
Keep one still, secret spot 
Where dreams may go, 
And, sheltered so, 
May thrive and grow 
Where doubt and fear are not. 
O keep a place apart, Within your heart, 
For little dreams to go! 
Think still of lovely things that are not true,
Let wish and magic work at will in you, 
Be sometimes blind to sorrow. 
Make believe! 
Forget the calm that lies 
In disillusioned eyes. 
Though we all know that we must die, 
Yet you and I 
May walk like gods and be 
Even now at home in immortality. 
We see so many ugly things 
Deceits and wrongs and quarrelings; 
We know, alas ! we know 
How quickly fade 
The color in the west, 
The bloom upon the flower, 
The bloom upon the breast, 
And youth's blind hour. 
Yet keep within your heart 
A place apart 
Where little dreams may go, 
May thrive and grow. 
Hold fast - hold fast your dreams! 
"THE LIFE SHE GAVE"
by John Masefield (1878)
In the dark womb where I began 
My mother's life made me a man. 
Through all the months of human birth 
Her beauty fed my common earth. 
I cannot see, nor breathe, nor stir, 
But through the death of some of her. 
Down in the darkness of the grave 
She cannot see the life she gave. 
For all her love, she cannot tell 
Whether I use it ill or well, 
Nor knock at dusty doors to find 
Her beauty dusty in the mind. 
If the grave's gates could be undone, 
She would not know her little son, 
I am so grown. If we should meet 
She would pass by me in the street, 
Unless my soul's face let her see 
My sense of what she did for me. 
What have I done to keep in mind 
My debt to her and womankind? 
What woman's happier life repays 
Her for those months of wretched days? 
For all my mouthless body leeched
Ere Birth's releasing hell was reached?
What have I done, or tried, or said 
In thanks to that dear woman dead?
Men triumph over women still, 
Men trample women's rights at will, 
And man's lust roves the world untamed. 
O grave, keep shut lest I be shamed. 
"ALONG THE ROAD"
by Robert B. Hamilton (1880)
I walked a mile with Pleasure; 
She chatted all the way,
But left me none the wiser 
For all she had to say. 
I walked a mile with Sorrow 
And ne'er a word said she; 
But oh, the things I learned from her 
When Sorrow walked with me! 
"MORNING COMPLIMENTS"
by Sydney Dayre (fl. 1881) 
A light little zephyr came flitting, 
Just breaking the morning repose. 
The rose made a bow to the lily, 
The lily she bowed to the rose. 
And then, in a soft little whisper,
As faint as a perfume that blows: 
‘You are brighter than I,’ said the lily; 
‘You are fairer than I,’ said the rose. 
"IT COULDN'T BE DONE"
by Edgar A. Guest (1881) 
Somebody said that it couldn't be done, 
But he with a chuckle replied 
That maybe it couldn't,
but he would be one 
Who wouldn't say so till he'd tried. 
So he buckled right in with the trace of a grin 
On his face.
If he worried he hid it. 
He started to sing as he tackled the thing 
That couldn't be done, and he did it. 
Somebody scoffed: ‘Oh, you'll never do that; 
At least no one ever has done it;’ 
But he took off his coat and he took off his hat, 
And the first thing we knew he'd begun it. 
With a lift of his chin and a bit of a grin, 
Without any doubting or quiddit, 
He started to sing as he tackled the thing 
That couldn't be done, and he did it. 
There are thousands to tell you it cannot be done, 
There are thousands to prophesy failure; 
There are thousands to point out to you, one by one, 
The dangers that wait to assail you. 
But just buckle in with a bit of a grin, 
Just take off your coat and go to it; 
Just start to sing as you tackle the thing 
That cannot be done and you'll do it. 
"THE THINKER "
by Bearton Braley (1882) 
Back of the beating hammer 
By which the steel is wrought, 
Back of the workshop's clamor 
The seeker may find the Thought 
The Thought that is ever master 
Of iron and steam and steel, 
That rises above disaster 
And tramples it under heel ! 
The drudge may fret and tinker 
Or labor with lusty blows, 
But back of him stands the Thinker, 
The clear-eyed man who knows; 
For into each plow or saber, 
Each piece and part and whole, 
Must go the Brains of Labor, 
Which gives the work a soul ! 
Might of the roaring boiler, 
Force of the engine's thrust, 
Strength of the sweating toiler 
Greatly in these we trust. 
But back of them stands the Schemer, 
The Thinker who drives things through, 
Back of the Job - the Dreamer 
Who's making the Dream come true! 
"THE OLD SAILOR"
by Alan A. Milne (1882) 
There was once an old sailor my grandfather knew 
Who had so many things which he wanted to do 
That, whenever he thought it was time to begin, 
He couldn't because of the state he was in. 
He was shipwrecked, and lived on an island for weeks, 
And he wanted a hat, and he wanted some breeks; 
And he wanted some nets, or a line and some hooks 
For the turtles and things which you read of in books. 
And, thinking of this, he remembered a thing 
Which he wanted (for water) and that was a spring; 
And he thought that to talk to he'd look for, and keep 
(If he found it) a goat, or some chickens and sheep. 
Then, because of the weather, he wanted a hut 
With a door (to come in by) which opened and shut 
(with a jerk, which was useful if snakes were about), 
And a very strong lock to keep savages out. 
He began on the fish-hooks, and when he'd begun 
He decided he couldn't because of the sun. 
So he knew what he ought to begin with, and that 
Was to find, or to make, a large sun-stopping hat. 
He was making the hat with some leaves from a tree, 
When he thought, ‘I'm as hot as a body can be, 
And I've nothing to take for my terrible thirst; 
So I'll look for a spring, and I'll look for it first.’ 
Then he thought as he started, 
‘Oh, dear and oh, I'll be lonely tomorrow with nobody here!’
So he made in his note-book a couple of notes: 
‘I must first find some chickens’ and ‘No, I mean goats.’
He had just seen a goat (which he knew by the shape) 
When he thought, 
‘But I must have a boat for escape. 
But a boat means a sail, which means needles and thread; 
So I'd better sit down and make needles instead.’
He began on a needle, but thought as he worked, 
That, if this was an island where savages lurked, 
Sitting safe in his hut he'd have nothing to fear, 
Whereas now they might suddenly breathe in his ear! 
So he thought of his hut and he thought of his boat, 
And his hat and his breeks and his chickens and goat, 
And the hooks (for his food) and the spring (for his thirst)
But he never could think which he ought to do first. 
And so in the end he did nothing at all, 
But basked on the shingle wrapped up in a shawl. 
And I think it was dreadful the way he behaved
He did nothing but basking until he was saved! 
"THE BEAUTY OF DEATH "
by Kahlil Gibran (1883) 
Unwrap me from this white linen shroud and clothe me 
With leaves of jasmine and lilies; 
Take my body from the ivory casket and let it rest 
Upon pillows of orange blossoms. 
Lament me not, but sing songs of youth and joy; 
Shed not tears upon me, but sing of harvest and the winepress; 
Utter no sigh of agony, but draw upon my face with your 
Finger the symbol of Love and Joy. 
Disturb not the air's tranquility with chanting and requiems, 
But let your hearts sing with me the song of Eternal life; 
Mourn me not with apparel of black, 
But dress in color and rejoice with me; 
Talk not of my departure with sighs in your hearts; 
Close your eyes and you will see me with you forever more. 
Place me upon clusters of leaves and 
Carry me upon your friendly shoulders and 
walk slowly to the deserted forest. 
Take me not to the crowded burying ground lest my slumber 
Be disturbed by the rattling of bones and skulls. 
Carry me to the cypress woods and dig my grave where violets 
And poppies grow 
Not in other's shadow; 
Let my grave be wide, so that the twilight shadows 
Will come and sit by me. 
Take from me all earthly raiment and place me deep in my 
Mother Earth; and place me with care upon my mother's breast. 
Cover me with soft earth, and let each handful be mixed 
With seeds of jasmine, lilies, and myrtle; and when they will 
Grow above me and thrive on my body's element, they will 
Breathe the fragrance of my heart into space; 
And reveal even to the sun the secret of my peace; 
And sail with the breeze and comfort the wayfarer. 
Leave me then, friends — leave me and depart on mute feet 
As the silence walks in the deserted valley; 
Leave me to God and disperse yourselves slowly, as the almond 
And apple blossoms disperse under the vibration of Nisan's breeze. 
Go back to the joy of your dwellings and you will find there 
That which Death cannot remove from you and me. 
"TREES"
by Joyce Kilmer (1886) 
I think that I shall never see 
A poem lovely as a tree. 
A tree whose hungry mouth is prest 
Against the earth's sweet flowing breast; 
A tree that looks at God all day, 
And lifts her leafy arms to pray; 
A tree that may in summer wear 
A nest of robins in her hair; 
Upon whose bosom snow has lain; 
Who intimately lives with rain. 
Poems are made by fools like me, 
But only God can make a tree. 
"NOT UNDERSTOOD "
by Thomas Bracken 
Not understood. 
We move along asunder; 
Our paths grow wider as the seasons creep
Along the years; we marvel and we wonder 
Why life is life. And then we fall asleep 
Not understood. 
Not understood. 
We gather false impressions, 
And hug them closer as the years go by,
Till virtues often seem to us transgressions; 
And thus men rise and fall, and live and die 
Not understood. 
Not understood. 
Poor souls with stunted vision
Oft measure giants by their narrow gauge; 
The poisoned shafts of falsehood and derision 
Are oft impelled 'gainst those who mould the age
Not understood. 
Not understanding. 
The secret springs of action
Which lie beneath the surface and the show 
Are disregarded; with self-satisfaction 
We judge our neighbor, and they often go 
Not understood. 
Not understood.
How trifles often change us! 
The thoughtless sentence or the fancied slight 
Destroys long years of friendship, and estranges us,
And on our souls there falls a freezing blight 
Not understood. 
Not understood. 
How many breasts are aching 
For lack of sympathy! 
Ah, day to day. 
How many cheerless, lonely hearts are breaking! 
How many noble spirits pass away - 
Not understood. 
O God! that men would see a little clearer, 
Or judge less harshly where they cannot see; 
O God! that men would draw a little nearer 
To one another; they'd be nearer Thee 
And understood. 
"LOVE"
by Roy Croft 
I love you, 
Not only for what you are, 
But for what I am 
When I am with you. 
I love you 
Not only for what 
You have made of yourself, 
But for what 
You are making of me. 
I love you 
For the part of me 
That you bring out; 
I love you 
For putting your hand 
Into my heaped-up heart 
And passing over 
All the foolish, weak things 
That you can't help 
Dimly seeing there, 
And for drawing out Into the light 
All the beautiful belongings 
That no one else had looked 
Quite far enough to find. 
I love you because you 
Are helping me to make 
Of the lumber of my life 
Not a tavern 
But a temple; 
Out of the works 
Of my every day 
Not a reproach 
But a song
You have done it 
Without a touch, 
Without a word, 
Without a sign. 
You have done it 
By being yourself. 
"A PRAYER FOR EVERY DAY"
by Mary C. Davies 
Make me too brave to lie or be unkind. 
Make me too understanding, too, to mind 
The little hurts companions give, and friends, 
The careless hurts that no one quite intends. 
Make me too thoughtful to hurt others so. 
Help me to know 
The inmost hearts of those for whom I care, 
Their secret wishes, all the loads they bear, 
That I may add my courage to their own. 
May I make lonely folks feel less alone, 
And happy ones a little happier yet. 
May I forget 
What ought to be forgotten; and recall Unfailing, all 
That ought to be recalled, each kindly thing, 
Forgetting what might sting. 
To all upon my way, 
Day after day, 
Let me be joy, be hope! Let my life sing! 
"LULLABY TOWN"
by John I. Diller
There's a quaint little place they call Lullaby Town 
It's just back of those hills where the sunsets go down. 
Its streets are of silver, its buildings of gold, 
And its palaces dazzling things to behold; 
There are dozens of spires, housing musical chimes; 
Its people are folk from the Nursery Rimes, 
And at night it's alight, like a garden of gleams, 
With fairies, who bring the most wonderful dreams. 
The Sandman is Mayor, and he rules like a King. 
The climate's so balmy that, always, it's spring, 
And it's never too cold, and it's never too hot, 
And I'm told that there's nowhere a prettier spot; 
All in and about it are giant old trees, 
Filled with radiant birds that will sing when you please; 
But the strange thing about it this secret, pray, keep 
Is, it never awakes till the world is asleep. 
So when night settles down, all its lights snap aglow, 
And its streets fill with people who dance to and fro. 
Mother Goose, Old King Cole and his fiddlers three, 
Miss Muffet, Jack Sprat and his wife, scamper free, 
With a whole host of others, a boisterous crew,
Not forgetting the Old Lady Who Lived in a Shoe
 And her troublesome brood who, with brownie and sprite, 
Go trooping the streets, a bewildering sight. 
There's a peddler who carries, strapped high on his back, 
A bundle. Now, guess what he has in that pack. 
There's a crowd all about him a-buying his wares, 
And they're grabbing his goods up in threes and in pairs.
 No, he's not peddling jams nor delectable creams. 
Would you know what he's selling? 
Just wonderful dreams! 
There are dreams for a penny and dreams that cost two; 
And there's no two alike, and they're sure to come true; 
And the buyers fare off with a toss of the head, 
And they visit the Sandman, then hie them to bed; 
For there's nothing to do in this land of Bo-Peep, 
But to frolic and sing and then go off to sleep! 
"THE BRIDGE-BUILDER"
by Will A. Dromgoole 
An old man, going a lone highway,
Came at the evening, cold and grey, 
To a chasm, vast and deep and wide, 
Through which was flowing a sullen tide.
The old man crossed in the twilight dim 
That sullen stream had no fears for him; 
But he turned, when he reached the other side,
And built a bridge to span the tide. 
'Old man,' said a pilgrim near, 
'You are wasting strength in building here. 
Your journey will end with the ending day; 
You never again must pass this way.
You have crossed the chasm, deep and wide;
Why build you the bridge at the eventide ?
The builder lifted his old grey head. 
Good friend, in the path I have come, he said, 
There followeth after me today 
A youth whose feet must pass this way. 
This chasm that has been nought to me 
To that fair-haired youth may a pitfall be. 
He too must cross in the twilight dim; 
Good friend, I am building the bridge for him.' 
"THE SEED"
by Aileen Fisher 
How does it know,
this little seed, 
if it is to grow 
to a flower or weed, 
if it is to be 
a vine or shoot, 
or grow to a tree with a long deep root?
A seed is so small; 
where do you suppose it stores up all 
of the things it knows? 
"LIKE MOTHER, LIKE SON"
by Margaret J. Grafflin
Do you know that your soul is of my soul such a part, 
That you seem to be fiber and core of my heart? 
None other can pain me as you, dear, can do, 
None other can please me or praise me as you. 
Remember the world will be quick with its blame 
If shadow or stain ever darken your name. 
‘Like mother, like son’ is a saying so true 
The world will judge largely the ‘mother’ by you. 
Be yours then the task, if task it shall be, 
To force the proud world to do homage to me. 
Be sure it will say, when its verdict you've won,
‘She reaped as she sowed. Lo! this is her son.’
"ANY WIFE OR HUSBAND"
by Carol Haynes 
Let us be guests in one another's house 
With deferential 
‘No’ and courteous ‘Yes’; 
Let us take care to hide our foolish moods 
Behind a certain show of cheerfulness. 
Let us avoid all sullen silences; 
We should find fresh and sprightly things to say;
I must be fearful lest you find me dull, 
And must dread to bore me any way.  
Let us knock gently at each other's heart, 
Glad of a chance to look within - and yet 
Let us remember that to force one's way
 Is the unpardoned breach of etiquette. 
So shall I be hostess you, the host- 
Until all need for entertainment ends; 
We shall be lovers when the last door shuts,
 But what is better still we shall be friends. 
"HAPPINESS"
by Priscilla Leonard 
Happiness is like a crystal 
Fair and exquisite and clear, 
Broken in a million pieces, 
Shattered, scattered far and near. 
Now and then along life's pathway, 
Lo! some shining fragments fall, 
But there are so many pieces 
No one ever finds them all. 
You may find a bit of beauty, 
Or an honest share of wealth, 
While another just beside you 
Gathers honor, love or health. 
Vain to choose or grasp unduly, 
Broken is the perfect ball; 
And there are so many pieces 
No one ever finds them all. 
Yet the wise as on they journey 
Treasure every fragment clear,
Fit them as they may together, 
Imaging the shattered sphere, 
Learning ever to be thankful, 
Though their share of it is small; 
For it has so many pieces 
No one ever finds them all. 
"SHOES HAVE TONGUES"
by Ilo Orleans 
Shoes have tongues, 
But cannot talk; 
Tables have legs, 
But cannot walk. 
Needles have eyes, 
But cannot see; 
Chairs have arms, 
But they can't hug me! 
"THE COMMON ROAD"
by Silas H. Perkins 
I want to travel the common road 
With the great crowd surging by, 
Where there's many a laugh and many a load, 
And many a smile and sigh. 
I want to be on the common way 
With its endless tramping feet, 
In the summer white and winter gray, 
In the noonday sun and heat. 
In the cool of evening with shadows nigh, 
At dawn, when the sun breaks clear, 
I want the great crowd passing by, 
To ken what they see and hear. 
I want to be one of the common herd, 
Not live in a sheltered way, 
Want to be thrilled, want to be stirred
By the great crowd day by day; 
To glimpse the restful valleys deep, 
To toil up the rugged hill, 
To see the brooks which shyly creep, 
To have the torrents thrill. 
I want to laugh with the common man 
Wherever he chance to be, 
I want to aid him when I can 
Whenever there's need of me. 
I want to lend a helping hand 
Over the rough and steep 
To a child too young to understand 
To comfort those who weep. 
I want to live and work and plan 
With the great crowd surging by, 
To mingle with the common man, 
No better or worse than I. 